# 20-0257.RSA%20COVID-19%20FAQ%20%28Batch%204%29.Final%20%28002%29




## UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES




## October 16, 2020
# FAQ-21-01


As grantees continue operations for the benefit of individuals with disabilities during the
COVID-19 pandemic, the Rehabilitation Services Administration (RSA), within the U.S.
Department of Education’s (Department) Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative
Services, issues these Questions and Answers in response to inquiries concerning the
administration of the State Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) Services and American Indian
Vocational Rehabilitation Services (AIVRS) programs under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as
amended (Rehabilitation Act) and Business Enterprise programs under the Randolph-Sheppard
Act. While these questions were submitted by grantees under these programs, many of the
answers apply generally to RSA formula grantees.

To review other Questions and Answers that RSA has provided related to COVID-19, please
visit rsa.ed.gov. VR agencies should contact their RSA State Liaison or project officer with
additional questions. Additional information specific to the COVID-19 pandemic may be found
online at https://www.ed.gov/coronavirus.


## VR Service Delivery

Q1.  What may a VR agency do if it takes longer to complete services on an
individualized plan for employment (IPE) or if the eligible individual needs
additional VR services due to the COVID-19 pandemic?

A VR agency and the individual, or the individual’s representative, may collaborate to amend an
IPE to make substantive changes to the employment outcome, VR services to be provided, or the
providers of those services. For example, if an eligible individual with a disability needs longer
than the time specified in the IPE to complete a particular VR service, the VR counselor and
individual would need to amend the IPE. If additional services are needed due to the passage of
time (e.g., maintenance, transportation, or additional training, to name a few) or a different
provider is needed due to a provider’s closure due to the pandemic (regardless of whether the
closure is permanent or temporary), the individual and VR counselor would have to agree to
amend the IPE in accordance with Section 102 (b)(3)(E)(ii) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34
## C.F.R. § 361.45(d)(6).


The changes on the IPE do not take effect until the IPE amendment is agreed to and signed by
both the individual, or his or her representative, and the VR counselor. In the event there is a
dispute regarding how the IPE should be amended, the individual, or his or her representative,
may request resolution through an informal or formal due process, including mediation,
established by section 102(c) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.57. As is true with
any IPE amendment process, the new services may not begin until the dispute is resolved and the
IPE amendment is signed by both the individual, or his or her representative, and the VR
counselor. Therefore, if the parties agree that the individual needs more time to complete a VR

## 400 MARYLAND AVE. S.W., WASHINGTON, DC 20202-2600
www.ed.gov
The Department of Education’s mission is to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness
by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal access.


---
## Page 2







service, but the original time period specified on the IPE has already passed, the individual must
wait until the IPE amendment process, and any applicable dispute resolution process, has been
completed before resuming those services. VR counselors and individuals, or their
representatives, are encouraged to proactively review time periods for services established in
IPEs and, as appropriate, make amendments to prevent unnecessary lapses in services.

Similarly, if the eligible individual needs an additional service that is not on the existing IPE,
such as maintenance to pay for additional costs incurred while participating in the VR program,
the new service cannot begin until the IPE amendment has been signed by both parties. This IPE
amendment process, as well as any applicable dispute resolution process, is the same regardless
of the underlying cause for a substantive change to the employment outcome, VR services, or
provider of those services. For additional information regarding the signing of initial or amended
IPEs, see Q2 in the questions and answers document issued by RSA on May 14, 2020 at:

https://www2.ed.gov/policy/speced/guid/rsa/supporting/rsa-faq-vr-aivrs-rs-programs-covid-19-
05-14-2020.pdfhttps://rsa.ed.gov/sites/default/files/subregulatory/rsa-faq-vr-aivrs-rs-programs-
covid-19-05-14-2020.pdf.

Q2.  May a VR agency provide services after the determination of eligibility but prior to
the development of the IPE if its development is delayed due to factors related to the
## COVID-19 pandemic?

Prior to development of an IPE, a VR agency may only provide: (1) assessment services when
needed by the eligible individual to determine his or her VR needs for purposes of developing
the IPE; (2) counseling and guidance services when needed to assist the individual to exercise
informed choice during the IPE development process; and (3) pre-employment transition
services to students with disabilities, regardless of whether they have been determined eligible
(Sections 103(a)(1)-(2) and 113(a) of the Rehabilitation Act). No other VR services may be
provided prior to the development of the IPE. Section 102(b)(4)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act
requires the IPE to specify the VR services that the eligible individual will receive. VR agencies

should use available technology (e.g., virtual meetings, teleconferences) or other means in
response to challenges related to COVID-19 to facilitate the timely development of IPEs.

Q3.  Can work-based learning experiences for students with disabilities include online
activities as an alternative to working directly on-site at a business location?

Yes. Students with disabilities may engage in work-based learning experiences under the VR
program, either as a pre-employment transition service under Section 113(b)(2) of the
Rehabilitation Act, or, in accordance with an approved IPE, as a training service or transition
service under Section 103(a)(5) and (15) of the Rehabilitation Act, as applicable. Online
activities could be paid or unpaid work-based learning experiences to the extent that internet
businesses or businesses that can engage in remote service delivery or telework offer work-based
learning opportunities that can be documented and reported and meet the needs, career
exploration interests, and informed choices of students with disabilities. Section 113(b) and 34
C.F.R. § 361.48(a)(2) do not require that work-based learning experiences, or any other pre-
employment transition service, for students with disabilities be provided in person. VR agencies

should make every effort to provide or arrange for work-based learning experiences available in


2




---
## Page 3







the current economy that enable students with disabilities to explore their potential career goals
leading to competitive integrated employment. This means that virtual work-based learning
experiences would be permissible, regardless of the pandemic, to the extent businesses offer such
opportunities for students with disabilities.

Q4.  Can VR program funds be used to continue to pay wages or stipends of individuals
with disabilities whose work-based learning experiences were cancelled due to the
## COVID-19 pandemic?

No. A VR agency may only use funds awarded by the Department to pay for allowable and
allocable costs incurred under the VR program during the period of performance of a Federal
award (2 C.F.R. §§ 200.403 through 200.405). Individuals with disabilities may engage in work-
based learning experiences under the VR program, either as a pre-employment transition service

under Section 113(b)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act or, in accordance with an approved IPE, as a
training service or a transition service under Section 103(a)(5) and (15) of the Rehabilitation Act,
as applicable.

Neither the Rehabilitation Act nor its implementing regulations require that work-based learning
experiences be in-person. Therefore, the Department encourages a VR agency to work with its
community service providers and with employers to devise alternative ways (e.g., through virtual
and other remote strategies) to continue providing those work-based learning experiences,
particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic when many businesses are operating virtually rather
than in person. In so doing, the VR agency can ensure continuity of these work-based learning
experiences under the VR program.

To the extent work-based learning experiences are cancelled or interrupted because the
employers or providers have suspended them due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a VR agency may
not use VR program funds to continue paying for these work-based learning experiences since
individuals with disabilities are not engaged in the work-based learning activity. Individuals with

disabilities would be permitted to start the work-based learning experience again once the
activity is available. Neither the Rehabilitation Act nor its implementing regulations impose any
limitations on the number or frequency of these services. This would be true whether the
interruption is due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the individual’s illness, or another reason.

Q5.  May a VR agency provide a broader range of services under 34 C.F.R. § 361.49
(Services for Groups) to support individuals with disabilities with living or other
expenses during the COVID-19 pandemic?

No. When providing services that benefit groups of individuals with disabilities, a VR agency
may provide only those services authorized under Section 103(b) of the Rehabilitation Act and
## 34 C.F.R. § 361.49(a). These services are limited to the following services that benefit groups of
individuals:

- •  The establishment, development, or improvement of community rehabilitation programs;

- •  Telecommunication systems;



3




---
## Page 4







- •  Special services that provide access to information for individuals who are blind,
deafblind, or deaf;
- •  Technical assistance to businesses;
- •  Costs for establishment and management of small business enterprises;
- •  Consultation and technical assistance services to assist State educational agencies and
local educational agencies in planning for the transition of students and youth with
disabilities from school to postsecondary life, including employment;
- •  Transition services to benefit a group of students with disabilities or youths with

disabilities, which are not individualized services directly related to an IPE goal;
- •  The establishment, development, or improvement of assistive technology demonstration,
loan, reutilization, or financing programs; and
- •  Support for advanced training in a field of science, technology, engineering, or
mathematics (including computer science), medicine, law, or business.

Services that benefit groups of individuals with disabilities are not individualized to meet
specific needs. If an eligible individual needs individualized VR services, such as maintenance to
assist with additional costs incurred while participating in the VR program, the individual or the
individual’s representative and the VR counselor must develop an IPE or an amendment to the
IPE to include such individual services in accordance with the requirements of Sections 102(b)
and 103(a) of the Rehabilitation Act.


Q6.  How does a VR agency ensure it meets confidentiality requirements during the
## COVID-19 pandemic?

A VR agency must meet the confidentiality requirements in 34 C.F.R. § 361.38 regarding the
protection, use, and release of personal information in the agency’s possession. While the VR
regulations set general requirements for the protection, use, and release of personal information,
## 34 C.F.R. § 361.38(a)(1)(v) makes clear that these policies and procedures provide no fewer
protections than those provided in accordance with State law and regulations.

When conducting virtual activities involving potentially eligible and eligible recipients of VR
services, such as virtual meetings and e-mail transmissions of personal information, a VR agency
must ensure it satisfies State and Federal requirements governing the protection, use, and release
of personal information and has the appropriate security protections. RSA does not endorse
particular virtual meeting platforms or methodologies for ensuring confidentiality. While the
pandemic might present unique circumstances that put personal information in a VR agency’s
possession at risk, this requirement must be satisfied by the VR agency at all times, and, as a
result, because of the virtual activities that may be undertaken, extra precautions may need to be

taken by the VR agency during the COVID-19 pandemic.

## Due Process

Q7.  Can a VR agency extend the timeline for conducting a due process hearing for
individuals with disabilities in dispute with the VR agency during the COVID-19
pandemic?



4




---
## Page 5







Yes, if all parties agree to an extension. VR program regulations at 34 C.F.R. 361.57(e)(1)
provide that a due process hearing conducted by an impartial hearing officer “must be held
within 60 days of an applicant’s or eligible individual’s request for review of a determination
made by personnel of the State unit that affects the provision of vocational rehabilitation services
to the individual, unless informal resolution or a mediation agreement is achieved prior to the
60th day or the parties agree to a specific extension of time.” However, before pursuing an
extension for the conduct of the hearing with the applicant or eligible individual, the parties
should make every effort to conduct the hearing by telephone or video-conference or through
other technologies so that the hearing can be conducted within the required timeline and the
individual’s participation in VR services is not unduly delayed.

## Use of Program Funds


Q8.  May a VR agency use program funds to provide financial payments to assist
unemployed eligible individuals with disabilities during the COVID-19 pandemic?

No. VR funds may not be used to pay financial assistance to unemployed eligible individuals
with disabilities, such as to make direct payments to them or to pay for their daily living
expenses (34 C.F.R. § 361.5(c)(34)). A VR agency may provide any of the services listed in
## Section 103(a) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.48(b) that are needed by an eligible
individual to achieve an employment outcome, including “maintenance” when needed by the
eligible individual to cover additional costs incurred while participating in the VR program at
any time (Section 103(a)(7) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.48(b)(7)). For
example, if an eligible individual must relocate temporarily to a different city to participate in a
training program, the VR agency could provide financial assistance as “maintenance” to cover
the additional housing and food costs incurred by the individual while participating in that
training. If the individual then needed to purchase clothing needed for the training, the VR
agency could pay for those expenses as “maintenance.” For any of these service needs, the
eligible individual and VR counselor would need to amend the IPE to ensure the services are

included in the approved IPE.

For other financial assistance for the individual, however, a VR agency must make available
information and referral services to other programs through which the individual might be able to
obtain assistance, including the Unemployment Insurance program or Social Security
Administration programs, consistent with the coordination requirements at Section 101(a)(11) of
the Rehabilitation Act.

Q9.  May a grantee use program funds to purchase cleaning and hygiene supplies (e.g.,
face masks, hand sanitizers, disinfectant spray or wipes, etc.)?

Yes, when necessary, reasonable, and allocable to the award. The use of program funds by a
grantee for purchases of cleaning and hygiene supplies necessary for work activities is an
allowable administrative cost to the extent the expenditure meets the Federal cost principles in
the Uniform guidance. The requirements at 2 C.F.R. § 200.403 indicate that, to be allowable, a
cost must be, among other things, necessary and reasonable for the performance of the award and

be allocable to that award.


5




---
## Page 6








In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is necessary and reasonable that a grantee would need to
acquire cleaning and hygiene supplies to keep employees and program participants safe while
maintaining the continuous operation of the program. A grantee must ensure that the costs
comply with the Federal cost principles set forth at 2 C.F.R. §§ 200.403 through 200.405 when
determining the amount that is allocable to the program and the portion that should be allocated
to other programs they administer.

This response is applicable to all formula grant programs administered by RSA.

Q10. Would a reimbursement by Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to
the State for VR staff expenses associated with the response to the pandemic be

considered program income?

The Department is unaware of any FEMA reimbursements offered to States for expenditures
incurred under the VR, Supported Employment, and Independent Living Services for Older
Individuals Who are Blind programs. However, if any State VR agency receives such
reimbursements, please contact RSA directly.

Q11. Can grant funds be used to cover the cost of approved contracted services that were
not performed by a contractor because of the COVID-19 pandemic?

Yes, in some limited circumstances, grant funds may be used to cover the costs of contracted
services that were cancelled or otherwise not performed due to the COVID-19 pandemic if the
contractor was ready and able to perform such services at the time. In determining whether grant
funds may be used, the grantee or subgrantee should follow the steps set forth below.

Check on alternative arrangements first: If the contracted services are necessary to carry out
the Federal award, the Department encourages grantees and subgrantees to work with their third-

party contractors to, first, devise alternative ways to provide those services (e.g.,
teleconferencing, training via webinars, and other virtual or remote strategies for service
delivery) to carry out the intent and purpose of the contracts, to the greatest extent practicable. In
so doing, the grantee or subgrantee should demonstrate its best efforts to ensure continuity of
needed services under the Federal award during the pandemic. The provision of services through
an alternative means may require modification of the contract in order to enable payment for the
services rendered via alternative or virtual means. Any such modification of the contract should
be negotiated so that the costs paid are reasonable and necessary.

Steps to take if services cannot be provided in an alternative manner: If the services cannot
be provided in an alternative manner and funds were already paid to the contractor, as we also
discussed, in the guidance on travel and conferences (Fact Sheet Final - Fiscal questions- 4-8-20
.pdf), the grantee or subgrantee must first seek to recover refundable and nonrefundable costs
from the relevant entity that was paid (i.e., the contractor). Some entities and businesses are
offering flexibility regarding refunds, credits, and other remedies for losses due to the COVID-
19 pandemic. Moreover, many agreements or contracts for conferences, training, or other

activities related to a grant contain emergency or “act of God” or “force majeure” provisions, and


6




---
## Page 7







the grantee and its subgrantees must seek to enforce such provisions to the maximum extent
possible in light of the COVID-19 pandemic.

If a grantee or subgrantee is unable to recover funds paid, and the contractor was prevented from
performing under the contract, but was ready and able to perform such services at the time, due
to the grantee’s or subgrantee’s closure or other inability to accept the services, caused by the
pandemic, the grantee or subgrantee should try to negotiate a reasonable compromise amount.

However, if no compromise can be negotiated, the grantee or subgrantee may charge the
appropriate grant for the costs of cancelling the contract, provided the contract costs were
reasonable and incurred in order to carry out an allowable activity under the grant, consistent
with the Federal cost principles described at 2 C.F.R. Part 200 Subpart E of the Uniform
## Guidance (Federal cost principles).


If the grantee or subgrantee was ready and able to accept the contracted services, but the
contractor could not provide the contracted services due to the pandemic, the grantee or
subgrantee must not pay for the services because such costs would not satisfy the requirements
of the Federal cost principles.

If there are State or local laws, regulations, or executive orders directly addressing a specific cost
item or items during this emergency situation as affected by COVID-19, their effect on the grant
will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine allowability and allocability under the
## Federal cost principles.

Grantees and subgrantees should not assume additional funds will be available to cover any
shortage in funds that may occur as a result of payments for services that were not provided
and/or received. Grantees and subgrantees must maintain appropriate records and cost
documentation as required by 2 C.F.R. § 200.302 (financial management) and 2 C.F.R.
§ 200.333 (retention requirements for records) to substantiate the charging of any cancellation or

other fees related to interruption of operations or services. This response is applicable to all
formula grant programs administered by RSA.

## Amendment of State Plans

Q12. Must a VR agency obtain public comment and amend its State Plan when
experiencing challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic that result in changes in
service delivery or possible implementation of an order of selection?

Generally, as discussed below the answer is no—we expect public comment and amending the
State Plan will not be necessary in many cases. As also explained below, however, when the VR
agency is considering substantive changes to policies and procedures, amending the State Plan
and receiving public comment may be necessary.

In the event a State needs to shift from an in-person strategy of delivering services to a virtual or
remote service delivery system due to the COVID-19 pandemic, such a change would not be

considered a substantive change requiring public comment pursuant to Section 101(a)(16) of the


7




---
## Page 8







Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.20, because changing from in-person to virtual service
delivery does not necessarily affect the nature and scope of the services themselves. Neither Title
I of the Rehabilitation Act nor its implementing regulations at 34 C.F.R. part 361 prescribe the
manner in which VR agencies are to provide services, nor is there a requirement in the VR
services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan for VR agencies to describe how they
would provide services to individuals with disabilities. VR agencies should consider
implementing virtual service delivery for as many of its services as possible and work with their
service provider partners to implement such virtual options, thereby ensuring the continuity of
the delivery of VR services to individuals with disabilities throughout the COVID-19 pandemic.

Nonetheless, the COVID-19 pandemic may result in potential limitations or reductions in
services or service delivery, or the possibility of implementing an order of selection or closing
priority categories because of office closures, reduction or unavailability of VR staff, loss of

available community rehabilitation programs (CRPs), or loss of other service vendors. If a VR
agency is considering substantive changes to policies and procedures, for example, or if a VR
agency is contemplating implementing an order of selection or closing one or more priority
categories, these actions would constitute a substantial change to policies and procedures that
would directly affect the nature and scope of services provided to individuals with disabilities.
Therefore, the VR agency would need to adhere to public participation requirements in Section
101(a)(16) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R § 361.20, such as holding public hearings and
including assurances, amendments, or modifications to the VR services portion of the Unified or
Combined State plan, as applicable. There is no Federal requirement that the public meetings be
held in person. If VR agencies are not able to conduct public meetings across the State due to
“shelter in place” and social distancing requirements, VR agencies should consider the use of
virtual public meetings consistent with applicable State meeting laws and regulations.

## Pre-Employment Transition Services

Q13. When providing or arranging for the provision of pre-employment transition

services, may a VR agency consider the unique circumstances of COVID-19 to re-
evaluate its fiscal forecast and availability of funds remaining for authorized
activities?

A State VR agency should engage in a continuous evaluation of its fiscal forecast with respect to
the amount of VR program funds it will need to provide, or arrange for the provision of, pre-
employment transition services to students with disabilities in the State. Only in constantly
assessing the need and adjusting the financial forecast for this need can the VR agency know
whether it will have funds remaining to engage in systemic activities for the benefit of students
with disabilities, known as “authorized” activities under Section 113(c) of the Rehabilitation Act.
Although the physical closure of schools and many CRPs due to the COVID-19 pandemic
presents unique challenges for the provision of pre-employment transition services to students
with disabilities, a VR agency must consider how to provide these services virtually in order to
comply with Federal requirements and ensure continuity of service delivery to students who need
them. The closure of in-person service providers would not automatically mean that a VR agency
could use those funds for “authorized” activities rather than the “required” or “coordination”

activities instead. The provision of pre-employment transition services to students with


8




---
## Page 9







disabilities directly (i.e., the “required” activities) and the coordination activities related to the
direct provision of those services are required under Section 113(b) and (d) of the Rehabilitation
Act, and there is no authority for the Department to waive these requirements.

However, once a VR agency reserves sufficient funds under Section 110(d)(1) of the
Rehabilitation Act for the provision of direct services to students who need them during a fiscal
year (e.g., virtual counseling and virtual work readiness training) and for the staff time spent
coordinating those activities (e.g., attending virtual individualized education program meetings
or setting up virtual work-based learning experiences with employers), the agency may allocate
any remaining reserved funds for other “authorized” pre-employment transition services.

These include activities that may support strategies and training of staff and providers for virtual
or remote service delivery of required activities for students with disabilities, such as instruction

to VR counselors, school transition personnel, and other persons supporting students with
disabilities (Section 113(c) of the Rehabilitation Act).

There is no requirement that a VR agency wait until all students with disabilities have received
direct services before it can spend funds on other authorized activities; the VR agency just has to
ensure sufficient funds are available to provide the required direct services and coordination
activities before engaging in the other “authorized” activities.

This response is consistent with guidance RSA has provided to VR agencies since the
requirement governing the provision of pre-employment transition services took effect in 2014.
See related guidance provided in the preamble to the Final Regulations at 81 FR 55630, 55703
(Aug. 19, 2016) and a PowerPoint presentation made by RSA during three regional trainings for
## VR agencies in the fall 2016 posted at
https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/osers/rsa/wioa/transition-of-students-and-youth-with-
disabilities-from-school-to-postsecondary-education-and-employment.pdf.


Q14. Can a VR agency provide pre-employment transition services to students with
disabilities who graduated from high school at the end of the 2019-2020 academic
year and whose services were disrupted, delayed, or cancelled due to the COVID-19
pandemic?

Pre-employment transition services are available only to students with disabilities, as defined at
## Section 7(37) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Rehabilitation Act) and 34 C.F.R.
§ 361.5(c)(51). So long as a student who was slated to graduate from secondary school at the end
of the 2019-2020 school year continues to participate in an educational program, including
postsecondary education or other recognized educational program, that student would be able to
continue receiving pre-employment transition services. Under the unprecedented circumstances
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, many students with disabilities, including those who were
slated to graduate at the end of the 2019-2020 school year, were participating in a variety of
recognized educational programs, such as remote learning and home schooling. Participation in
any of these educational programs would qualify for the receipt of pre-employment transition
services.




9




---
## Page 10







A graduating student with a disability who took summer school classes would still be
participating in an educational program. As such, the student would be able to receive any pre-
employment transition services provided while participating in summer school classes, through
virtual and other remote strategies or in-person pre-employment transition services, to the extent
available. The same would be true for a graduating student with a disability who enrolled in a
postsecondary education program that started in the fall or later as part of a “gap-year” program.

Both of these categories of students with disabilities would be able to participate in pre-
employment transition services either now, through virtual and remote strategies, or in-person
once in-person services resume. For any of these students, the VR agency should obtain evidence
(e.g., a letter of acceptance into the postsecondary program) that demonstrates the student’s
continued participation in an educational program.


Unfortunately, if a graduating student with a disability does not intend to pursue an educational
program of any kind, the student would not be able to receive pre-employment transition services
at the end of the school year, regardless of whether those services were interrupted or cancelled
during the final year of secondary school. Under existing Federal law, there is no authority to
waive the definition of a “student with a disability.” However, these individuals may apply for,
and if determined eligible, receive VR services as participants in the VR program.

## Fiscal Administration of the VR Program

Q15. May a VR agency pay CRPs retainer fees during the period of the COVID-19
pandemic?

Regulations at 2 C.F.R. § 200.459(c) state that “to be allowable, retainer fees must be supported
by evidence of bona fide services available or rendered.” Therefore, if such retainers are paid
with program funds, they must be supported by evidence of the services that were provided.
However, when services are not provided, payment of retainers to CRPs and other vendors are

not an allowable cost to the Federal award.

A grantee making such payments must ensure that relevant supporting documentation satisfies
the internal controls requirements of 2 C.F.R. §§ 200.302 and 200.303.

This response is applicable to all formula grant programs administered by RSA.

Q16. May a VR agency use the establishment authority under the Rehabilitation Act to
pay the ongoing operating expenses of CRPs during the COVID-19 pandemic?

No. Section 103(b)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act authorizes a VR agency to use program funds to
establish, develop, or improve a CRP, but not to pay ongoing operating expenses of that CRP.
The VR regulations at 34 C.F.R. § 361.5(c)(16) define “establishment, development, or
improvement of a public or nonprofit [CRP]” as: (1) the establishment of a facility for a public or
nonprofit CRP; (2) staffing, if necessary to establish, develop, or improve a public or nonprofit
CRP for the purpose of providing VR services; and (3) other expenditures and activities




10




---
## Page 11







necessary to make the program functional or to increase its effectiveness in providing VR
services “but are not ongoing operating expenses of the program.” (34 C.F.R.
§ 361.5(c)(16)(iii)).

Since Federal regulations specifically preclude ongoing expenses from the definition of
“establishment, development, or improvement of a public or nonprofit [CRP],” the establishment
authority at Section 103(b)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act may not be used for maintaining ongoing
operations of CRPs at any time.

Q17. How quickly will RSA process prior approval requests for anticipated costs
incurred to maintain operations during the COVID-19 pandemic, such as the
purchase of equipment for telework?


RSA financial management specialists are expediting prior approval requests during this critical
time. A VR agency may use the aggregate prior approval submission process for purchases of
numerous items, in accordance with the OSERS Grantee Letter dated October 29, 2019 (Prior
## Approval FAQ), and RSA will expedite these requests.

For States with an equipment capitalization threshold that is less than the $5,000 established in
the Uniform Guidance (e.g., if a State’s equipment capitalization cost is less than the cost of
laptops an agency might be purchasing so employees can telework), the laptops would constitute
“equipment” as that term is defined at 2 C.F.R. § 200.33, not as “supplies” as that term is defined
at 2 C.F.R. § 200.94. A VR agency in one of these States must obtain prior approval consistent
with the Uniform Guidance at 2 C.F.R. § 200.407(f) and may do so using the aggregate
approach.

RSA will issue responses as quickly as possible when all required information is submitted with
the prior approval request. To streamline the submission process, RSA recommends that an
agency anticipating purchasing multiple items (e.g., multiple laptops and any other equipment)

use the aggregate prior approval submission process described in the OSERS Grantee Letter
dated October 29, 2019. For example, if the agency plans to purchase 100 laptops at a cost of
$500 each plus five copiers at $500 each in Federal fiscal year (FFY) 2020, the agency could
submit one prior approval request, in the aggregate, for $52,500 in equipment costs. This
response is applicable to all formula grant programs administered by RSA.

Q18. Can RSA waive the VR program maintenance of effort (MOE) requirement for
States with changes in non-Federal expenditures for the VR program as a result of
the COVID-19 pandemic?

Consistent with existing Federal requirements explained below, States may request an MOE
waiver once they have submitted all financial data related to a deficit year in a final Federal
## Financial Report (SF-425).

The Rehabilitation Act and its implementing regulations allow a State to request a waiver or
modification of its MOE requirement if the State does not meet that requirement because of

certain circumstances. Section 111(a)(2)(C) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.62(d)


11




---
## Page 12







authorize the Secretary to grant a waiver or modification of the MOE shortfall when such an
action would be an equitable response to exceptional or uncontrollable circumstances affecting
the State.

For States with decreased non-Federal expenditures incurred in FFY 2020, the MOE level for
FFY 2020 will not be calculated until the agency submits its final SF-425 for the FFY 2020 grant
award. Only then will RSA have the data necessary to know the actual non-Federal expenditures
incurred by the agency during FFY 2020. With that information, RSA will be able to calculate
whether the State satisfied the MOE requirement by comparing the FFY 2020 non-Federal
expenditures to the non-Federal expenditures incurred by the State in FFY 2018 (Section
111(a)(2)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act). If RSA determines the State has a MOE deficit at that
time, the State could request a waiver or modification of the MOE requirement.


By contrast, an increase in non-Federal expenditures incurred in FFY 2020 due to the COVID-19
pandemic will not have a potential negative impact on MOE until after the non-Federal
expenditures and MOE level is known for FFY 2022. RSA will not be able to determine whether
States satisfied their MOE requirement for FFY 2022 until it receives the final financial report
for the FFY 2022 grant award from those States. Only then will RSA have the data necessary to
know the actual non-Federal expenditures incurred by States during FFY 2022, as compared to
the non-Federal expenditures incurred in FFY 2020. With that information, RSA will be able to
calculate whether the State satisfied the MOE requirement by comparing the FFY 2022 non-
Federal expenditures to the non-Federal expenditures incurred by the State in FFY 2020 (Section
111(a)(2)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act). If RSA determines the State has a MOE deficit at that
time, the State could request a waiver or modification of the MOE requirement.

## Assignment of VR Staff to Other Programs

Q19. What assurance must a State agency submit to RSA when deciding to assign VR
program staff to assist other non-VR programs in responding to the COVID-19

pandemic?

A VR agency must submit a written assurance to RSA when deciding to assign VR program staff
to assist non-VR programs in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The designated State agency
- (DSA) must assure that the designated State unit (DSU) will continue to satisfy the
organizational requirements for the Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) program, as set forth in
## Section 101(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Rehabilitation Act, particularly with respect to its staffing levels.
## Specifically, the DSA must assure that the DSU will—

- •  Continue to employ at least 90 percent of its staff on the rehabilitation work of the DSU
in accordance with Section 101(a)(2)(B)(ii)(III) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R.
§ 361.13(b)(1)(iii);
- •  Ensure that any reassignment of DSU staff during the COVID-19 pandemic is necessary
to meet the needs of the State during the unprecedented circumstances caused by this

pandemic, and is expected to be only for a specified period of time;
- •  Notify RSA in the event the DSA needs to adjust either the number of DSU staff
reassigned to another program or the time period for that reassignment;


12




---
## Page 13







- •  Continue to provide the level of VR services required to meet the needs of individuals
with disabilities in a manner consistent with the approved Unified or Combined State
Plan and amend eligible individuals’ IPEs, as appropriate, if there is a disruption in
service because of the reassignment of staff during the COVID-19 pandemic, to ensure
the VR service needs of individuals are met. This amendment may include services that
make up for the effects of the disruption to the services to meet the needs of the
individuals with disabilities, when appropriate;
- •  Ensure that DSU employees will be paid only from other non-VR program funding
sources for the time spent on the activities during the reassignment and that there will be
no double payment from VR program funds or other sources; and
- •  Allocate all direct and indirect costs associated with DSU staff who are reassigned to non-VR

activities or programs to those non-VR activities or programs for the duration of the
reassignment, in accordance with requirements of 2 C.F.R. § 200.405.

## American Indian Vocational Rehabilitation Services Program

Q20. How does the guidance for State VR agencies provided in questions 1 through 11
apply to AIVRS projects?

While the specific statutory requirements in Title I of the Rehabilitation Act and regulatory
requirements in 34 C.F.R. part 361 cited in questions 1 through 11 apply only to State VR
agencies and not to AIVRS projects, the guidance provided in those questions may also be useful
in the implementation of AIVRS projects consistent with their approved applications, their
policies and procedures, Section 121 of the Rehabilitation Act, and its implementing regulations
at 34 C.F.R. part 371. This is because under Section 121(b)(1)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act and
## 34 C.F.R. § 371.21(a), VR services provided by AIVRS projects to American Indians with

disabilities must be broad in scope and be provided in a manner and at a level of quality at least
comparable to those services provided by the State VR agency.

Similarly, under 34 C.F.R. § 371.21(e), AIVRS projects must provide all VR services according
to an IPE developed jointly by the representative of the Tribal VR program and each American
## Indian with disabilities served.

Under 34 C.F.R § 371.21(i), any American Indian with disabilities who is an applicant or
recipient of services and who is dissatisfied with a determination made by a representative of the
Tribal vocational rehabilitation program, may file a request for a review and be afforded a review
under procedures developed by the Tribal VR program comparable to those under the provisions
of Section 102(c)(1)-(5) and (7) of the Rehabilitation Act.

AIVRS projects must develop and maintain policies and procedures regarding the provision of
services under 34 C.F.R. § 371.43(d) and informed choice under 34 C.F.R. § 371.43(e) that
would address IPE development and service delivery. Projects also must ensure that they adhere

to their confidentiality procedures developed under 34 C.F.R. § 371.44.

If an amendment to any of these policies and procedures is necessary in order to implement any
of this guidance, AIVRS projects should follow Tribal procedures in doing so. If a modification


13




---
## Page 14







of an AIVRS project’s approved application is necessary, then the AIVRS project director should
consult with RSA. If the Tribal VR program director has any questions, they should contact their
## RSA project officer.

Finally, the guidance and the answers to questions 12 through 19 do not apply to the operation of
or the services provided by AIVRS programs.

VR Program and the Business Enterprise Program under the Randolph-Sheppard Act

Q21. Can a VR agency pay for replacement stock and supplies needed by a blind vendor
who has been determined eligible for services under the VR program when the
vending facility is reopened during or following the COVID-19 pandemic?


Yes, under certain circumstances. As is true for any individual with a disability applying for VR
services, whether services can be provided to a blind vendor is a case-by-case determination
based on the facts and circumstances present at the time a blind vendor applies for services.
Factors a VR agency needs to consider when deciding whether to replace stock and supplies
include, but are not limited to—

- •  Whether the blind vendor is eligible for the VR program under Section 102(a)(1) of the
## Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.42;
- •  The individual’s priority for services, if the State is implementing an order of selection,
pursuant to Section 101(a)(5) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.36;
- •  If the State is implementing an order of selection, a determination by the State whether it
elected in the VR services portion of its Unified or Combined State Plan, that took effect
on July 1, 2020, to exercise its discretion, under Section 101(a)(5)(D) of the

Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.36(a)(3)(v), to serve eligible individuals outside
of the order of selection who need a specific service or equipment to maintain a job;
- •  Whether the VR agency has developed an IPE with the blind vendor to describe the
services needed to ensure the vendor can regain, maintain, or advance in employment
pursuant to Section 102(b) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.45 and 361.46;
and
- •  If the State is implementing an order of selection and has elected to serve eligible
individuals outside of the order when they are in jeopardy of losing a job, whether there
is a specific service or equipment that would enable the blind vendor to maintain
employment.













14

