# 2022-05940




Federal Register/Vol. 87, No. 54/Monday, March 21, 2022/Rules and Regulations 15889

designated representative via VHF radio Background Following implementation of the pre-
on channel 16, to request authorization.         employment transition services
## The amendments to the Rehabilitation
If authorization is granted, all persons         requirements, the Department received
## Act of 1973 (Rehabilitation Act) made
and vessels receiving such authorization         comments from DSUs and other
by title IV of the Workforce Innovation
must comply with the instructions of             stakeholders regarding: (1) The need for
and Opportunity Act (WIOA) place
the COTP Charleston or a designated              further clarification about the extent to
heightened emphasis on the provision
representative.                                  which funds reserved for the provision
of services to students and youth with
- (3) The Coast Guard will provide                of pre-employment transition services
disabilities to ensure that they have
notice of the regulated area by Broadcast        may be used to pay for auxiliary aids
meaningful opportunities to receive the
Notice to Mariners, or by on-scene               and services; and (2) the ability of States
training and other services they need to
designated representatives.                      to reserve and expend at least 15
achieve employment outcomes in
- (d) Enforcement Period. This rule will          percent of their VR grants on the
competitive integrated employment.
be enforced from 7:30 a.m. until 11 a.m.,        provision of pre-employment transition
## The Rehabilitation Act, as amended by
on April 2, 2022.                                services under the Department’s general
## WIOA, expanded not only the
interpretation of the statutory
## Dated: March 12, 2022.  population of students with disabilities
requirements related to the allowable
## J.D. Cole,               who may receive services under the VR
use of funds. Specifically, DSUs and
Captain, U.S. Coast Guard, Captain of the program but also the kinds of services stakeholders asked if funds reserved for
## Port Charleston.         the designated State units (DSUs) may
pre-employment transition services may
[FR Doc. 2022–05779 Filed 3–18–22; 8:45 am] provide to these students with be used to cover the costs of auxiliary
disabilities who are transitioning from
BILLING CODE 9110–04–P                           aids and services provided directly to
school to postsecondary education and
students with disabilities as well as
employment.
other VR services, such as
## Most notably, section 110(d)(1) of the
transportation, tuition for postsecondary
## DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION  Rehabilitation Act and 34 CFR
education, rehabilitation technology,
361.65(a)(3)(i) requires States to reserve
and job coaching.
## 34 CFR Part 361          at least 15 percent of their Federal VR
## On February 28, 2020, the Department
grant for the provision of pre- published an NOI in the Federal
[Docket ID ED–2019–OSERS–0140] employment transition services. Section Register (85 FR 11848) to clarify current
113(a) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 policy regarding the permissibility of
## State Vocational Rehabilitation
CFR 361.48(a) require DSUs for the VR using funds reserved for pre-
## Services Program
program to use the reserved funds to employment transition services for
AGENCY: Office of Special Education and provide, or arrange for the provision of, auxiliary aids and services, and to
Rehabilitative Services, Department of pre-employment transition services to announce a change in policy regarding
Education.               all students with disabilities in need of the use of Federal VR funds reserved for
ACTION: Final interpretation. such services who are eligible or pre-employment transition services.
potentially eligible for services under There are no changes between the
SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of the VR program.  original interpretation published on
Education (Department) issues this final Section 113(b) of the Rehabilitation February 28, 2020, and this final
notification of interpretation (NOI) in Act and 34 CFR 361.48(a)(2) list the five interpretation. Through this document,
response to comments made on the NOI required pre-employment transition the Department also rescinds the Dear
published in the Federal Register on services that DSUs, in collaboration Director email transmitted to VR
February 28, 2020. That NOI became with local educational agencies (LEAs), agencies on December 28, 2016,
effective on the date it was issued and must make available to students with regarding the use of reserved funds for
clarified current policy regarding the disabilities in need of these services. the provision of auxiliary aids and
permissibility of using funds reserved These services are— services because the substance of that
for pre-employment transition services • Job exploration counseling; email was incorporated into and
for auxiliary aids and services, and it • Work-based learning experiences, clarified by the February 28, 2020, NOI.
announced a change in policy regarding which may include in-school or after Public Comment: In response to our
the use of Federal vocational school opportunities, or experience invitation in the NOI, 26 parties
rehabilitation (VR) funds reserved for outside the traditional school setting submitted comments.
the provision of pre-employment (including internships), that are Analysis of Comments and Changes:
transition services. The Department’s provided in an integrated environment An analysis of the comments on the
policy expressed in this final NOI is to the maximum extent possible; interpretation since its publication
unchanged from that in the NOI • Counseling on opportunities for follows. We do not address comments
published on February 28, 2020. enrollment in comprehensive transition that raised concerns not directly related
or postsecondary educational programs to the interpretation.
## DATES: This final interpretation is
at institutions of higher education;
issued: March 21, 2022. Pursuant to the • Workplace readiness training to Support for Interpretation
## NOI, this interpretation is applicable as
develop social skills and independent Comments: Commenters generally
of February 28, 2020.
living; and             expressed appreciation for the
FORFURTHERINFORMATIONCONTACT: • Instruction in self-advocacy, which flexibilities described in the NOI. Some
Carol Dobak, U.S. Department of may include peer mentoring. commenters noted that the flexibilities
Education, 400 Maryland Avenue SW, Pre-employment transition services would allow students with the most
Room 5153, Potomac Center Plaza, represent the earliest set of services significant disabilities to benefit from
Washington, DC 20202–0001. available for students with disabilities the expansion of services needed to
Telephone: (202) 245–7325. Email: under the VR program, are short-term in access and support the provision of pre-
Carol.Dobak@ed.gov.      nature, and are designed to help employment transition services. One
SUPPLEMENTARYINFORMATION: students identify career interests. commenter stated that the new
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:50 Mar 18, 2022 Jkt 256001 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\21MRR1.SGM 21MRR1
# SELUR
htiw
# DORP2X7Z1MJKSD
no
dnommahk


---
## Page 2




## 15890    Federal Register/Vol. 87, No. 54/Monday, March 21, 2022/Rules and Regulations

flexibilities would promote section 113(c) of the Rehabilitation Act commercial truck driver). It would not
accountability and strengthen and 34 CFR 361.48(a)(3). be reasonable to conclude that this
partnership with schools and For these reasons, a DSU may not use advanced driver’s education is within
employers.               the funds reserved for the provision of the scope of pre-employment transition
Discussion: The Department pre-employment transition services to services as workplace readiness training
appreciates the positive comments and pay for tuition and other costs of when students have chosen a specific
feedback regarding this interpretation. attending postsecondary education, career for which advanced driver’s
Changes: None.          since this is not among those activities education and a special driver’s license
that are required or authorized under is required. Rather, such a service
Use of Reserved Funds for Certain section 113 of the Rehabilitation Act would be considered a job training
Services                 and 34 CFR 361.48(a), and this service service provided pursuant to section
Comments: Commenters stated that is not necessary for a student with a 103(a)(5) of the Rehabilitation Act and
postsecondary tuition and fees should disability to access or participate in one 34 CFR 361.48(b)(6). Under this
be an allowable cost under pre- of the required pre-employment circumstance, this service must be
employment transition services, transition services listed in section provided using funds for other VR
indicating that the Department’s 113(b) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 services (i.e., funds not reserved for the
interpretation was too narrow, and that CFR 361.48(a)(2). provision of pre-employment transition
postsecondary training aligns with Changes: None. services) to support the eligible student
workplace readiness training under the Comments: One commenter with a disability’s specific employment
five required activities and also falls emphasized the importance of driver goal under an approved IPE.
education training and suggested that it Changes: None.
under authorized activities.
be considered as an allowable service
Discussion: The Department disagrees            Use of Reserved Funds for Auxiliary
under workplace readiness training.
that the interpretation is too narrow or         Aids and Services
## Discussion: Whether driver education
unnecessarily restrictive. Pre-
may be considered to be within the Comments: Several commenters
employment transition services,
scope of workplace readiness training recommended that we consider job
including work readiness training,
(i.e., development of social skills and coaching an auxiliary aid and service
represent the earliest activities in career
independent living) for the purposes of and that we not limit the availability of
exploration and are designed to assist
section 113(b) of the Rehabilitation Act this service to students with significant
students with disabilities to identify
and 34 CFR 361.48(a)(2) depends on the disabilities who apply and are
their employment goals. On the other
circumstances under which this service determined eligible to receive this
hand, financial support for is provided to any student with a service under an IPE. Commenters also
postsecondary education tuition and disability. Consistent with the Federal requested clarification about the
fees, as authorized by section 103(a)(5) cost principles at 2 CFR 200.403 differences between job coaches and
of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 CFR through 200.405, costs incurred with the work site trainers.
361.48(b)(6), is provided to individuals funds reserved under section 110(d)(1) Discussion: ‘‘Auxiliary aids and
transitioning from secondary school to of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 CFR services,’’ under the Americans with
postsecondary education for purposes of 361.65(a)(3)(i) must be— Disabilities Act’s (ADA) title II
achieving a specific employment • Necessary for the provision or implementing regulations in 28 CFR
outcome. Therefore, we continue to receipt of pre-employment transition 35.104, include services such as the
maintain that tuition and fees for services;     acquisition or modification of
postsecondary education are outside the • Reasonable, that is, those that a equipment or devices, or other effective
nature, scope, and purpose of pre- prudent person would agree are methods, to make aurally delivered
employment transition services and the necessary for the provision or receipt of information available to individuals
required activities specified in section pre-employment transition services; and who are deaf or hard of hearing, or
113(b) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 • Allocable, that is, those that benefit visually delivered materials available to
CFR 361.48(a)(2).        the provision or receipt of pre- individuals who are blind or have low
In addition, those authorized employment transition services. vision. The definition of ‘‘auxiliary aids
activities listed in section 113(c) of the Thus, students with disabilities, and services’’ includes effective
Rehabilitation Act and 34 CFR regardless of whether they have been methods of delivering materials in an
361.48(a)(3) are systemic in nature and determined eligible or have an IPE, for alternative format for individuals who
encompass strategies the DSUs develop example, who live in rural areas lacking are deaf or hard of hearing, or who are
and use for the delivery of pre- public transportation, may need to learn blind or have low vision, which are
employment transition services. In other to drive to enhance their independence distinct from job coaching services
words, given the systemic nature of the and ability to explore a wider range of designed to assist individuals with
authorized services listed in section career options. Under this circumstance, disabilities perform on-the-job tasks.
113(c) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 it may be reasonable to determine that Thus, job coaching services are not
CFR 361.48(a)(3), they are not services driver’s education would be within the within the scope of auxiliary aids and
that are provided directly to students scope of workplace readiness training as services for the purpose of providing
with disabilities, but rather facilitate the described in section 113(b) and 34 CFR access to pre-employment transition
systemic delivery of pre-employment 361.48(a)(2) and allocate the cost of this services using funds reserved under
transition services. Because financial service to the funds reserved for the section 110(d) of the Rehabilitation Act.
support for postsecondary education provision of pre-employment transition The Department disagrees with the
tuition and fees is a service provided services. commenter’s suggestion that job
directly to eligible individuals with However, some students with coaching should be considered an
disabilities on an individual basis under disabilities may require more advanced auxiliary aid and service. It has been
an individualized plan for employment driver’s education to obtain and continues to be the Department’s
(IPE), this service is not within the employment involving public or interpretation, as stated in the NOI, that
scope of the authorized activities in commercial transportation (e.g., bus or DSUs may use funds reserved for the
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:50 Mar 18, 2022 Jkt 256001 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\21MRR1.SGM 21MRR1
# SELUR
htiw
# DORP2X7Z1MJKSD
no
dnommahk


---
## Page 3




Federal Register/Vol. 87, No. 54/Monday, March 21, 2022/Rules and Regulations 15891

provision of pre-employment transition Administrative Costs individual with a disability could access
services to pay for auxiliary aids and           the service. This would be true for any
## Comments: One commenter
services needed by all students with             student with a disability who needs
recommended that the 15 percent
disabilities with sensory and                    such interpreter services to access pre-
reserve be used to fulfill data collection
communicative disorders who need                 employment transition services.
requirements associated with pre-
such aids and services to access or              However, these expenditures would be
employment transition services.
participate in pre-employment                    considered administrative costs to the
## Discussion: The Department
transition services (85 FR at 11849– acknowledges the recommendation; VR agency. As such, they may not be
11850).                  however, fulfilling data collection paid with funds reserved for the
In addition, the Department disagrees requirements associated with pre- provision of pre-employment transition
that funds reserved for the provision of employment transition services is an services since these reserved funds may
pre-employment transition services administrative cost and section not be used to pay for administrative
should be used to pay for costs of job
110(d)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act and costs, pursuant to section 110(d)(2) of
coaching needed by all students with
## 34 CFR 361.65(a)(3)(ii)(B) prohibit the the Rehabilitation Act, regardless of
disabilities, regardless of whether they
use of funds reserved for pre- whether the student with a disability
have applied and been determined
employment transition services to pay has been determined eligible for the VR
eligible for the VR program and have an
for administrative costs . DSUs can use program.
approved IPE. There is no authority
under the Rehabilitation Act to provide other VR grant funds not reserved for With respect to transportation costs to
job coaching or other coaching services the provision of pre-employment and from the pre-employment transition
to students with disabilities who do not transition services to pay these services, whether a DSU may use funds
have an approved IPE. As stated in the administrative costs. reserved for the provision of pre-
NOI, DSUs may provide any service that Changes: None. employment transition services for these
an eligible individual needs to achieve Services for Potentially Eligible Students expenditures depends on whether the
an employment outcome in accordance With Disabilities student with a disability has been
with an approved IPE. In the context of          determined eligible for the VR program
## Comments: A few commenters
pre-employment transition services, one          and whether he or she has an approved
emphasized the need for additional
such service is coaching services for            IPE. For potentially eligible students
flexibilities surrounding the 15 percent
eligible students with disabilities              with disabilities, the DSU may provide
reserve funds and allowable services.
participating in work-based learning             only the five required pre-employment
## Specifically, they commented on the
experiences under section 113(b)(2) and          transition services in section 113(b) of
importance of foreign language
## 34 CFR 361.48(a)(2)(ii). These coaches           the Rehabilitation Act, as well as
interpreters and transportation services
perform functions similar to job coaches         auxiliary aids and services, as
for potentially eligible students and
in supported employment settings by              appropriate. As such, funds reserved for
their families to facilitate access to pre-
assisting the eligible student with a            the provision of pre-employment
employment transition services.
disability to perform the tasks assigned         transition services may be used to cover
## Discussion: The Department
during the work-based learning                   only these costs with respect to those
appreciates the comments related to the
experiences. While these particular              students with disabilities who have not
scope and types of services that may be
coaching services are not specifically           yet been determined eligible for the VR
charged to the minimum of 15 percent
listed in section 103(a), they would be          program and who do not have an
reserved funds for pre-employment
considered allowable VR services under           approved IPE (i.e., potentially eligible
transition services for potentially
section 103(a) and 34 CFR 361.48(b)(21)          students with disabilities). Any other
eligible and eligible students with
if needed by an eligible student with a          VR service (e.g., transportation) needed
disabilities. We believe the issue of
disability, in accordance with an                by a student with a disability to
approved IPE, to participate in pre- foreign language interpreters is different participate in pre-employment
employment transition services. Given from that of transportation and must be transition services could only be
that pre-employment transition services handled separately. Section 101(a)(7)(C) provided once the student with a
are among the earliest types of services of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 CFR disability has been determined eligible
available to students with disabilities, it 361.18 require States to assure in the VR
for the VR program and has an approved
is reasonable to expect that these services portions of their Unified or
## IPE that lists the other service as
eligible students may need extra Combined State Plans that they will
necessary for the participation in pre-
assistance through coaching services to establish and maintain minimum
employment transition services.
participate in these activities and, thus, standards to ensure DSU personnel or
## Therefore, transportation for potentially
these coaching services would be other individuals are available to
eligible students with disabilities would
allocable to those pre-employment communicate in the native language or
not be chargeable to the reserved funds.
transition services. Therefore, DSUs mode of communication of applicants,
## By contrast, for eligible students with
may use funds reserved for the recipients of VR services, and eligible
disabilities, section 103(a) of the
provision of pre-employment transition individuals. As such, it is the
## Rehabilitation Act authorizes the
services to pay for the costs of coaching responsibility of the DSUs to ensure that
provision of VR services under an IPE.
services when needed by eligible their staff are trained to communicate in
## To the extent that transportation
students with disabilities to participate the native language of VR program
services are necessary to support the
in a work-based learning experience participants, including students with
eligible student with a disability’s
pursuant to an IPE, and when costs disabilities receiving pre-employment
participation in pre-employment
would be reasonable and allocable to transition services. If such staff are not
transition services and are identified on
the provision of pre-employment available because of personnel turnover
the IPE, the reasonable cost of such
transition services in accordance with or other reasons, it would be necessary
services may be charged to the reserved
requirements governing Federal cost and reasonable under the Federal cost
funds.
principles.              principles for a DSU to use VR funds to
Changes: None.          pay for such an interpreter so that the Changes: None.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:50 Mar 18, 2022 Jkt 256001 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\21MRR1.SGM 21MRR1
# SELUR
htiw
# DORP2X7Z1MJKSD
no
dnommahk


---
## Page 4




## 15892    Federal Register/Vol. 87, No. 54/Monday, March 21, 2022/Rules and Regulations

Order of Selection       provision of pre-employment transition include youth with disabilities not in
services for students with disabilities. school. These recommendations would
## Comments: Two commenters noted a
We believe it would be reasonable and require statutory changes and, therefore,
need to extend the flexibilities
permissible to allow such accounting of cannot be implemented by the
described in the interpretation to
funds, as described in the NOI, because Department through an interpretation of
students determined eligible for VR
doing so will be a benefit to all States existing law.
services but who are placed on a waiting
in making it easier for them to satisfy Changes: None.
list due to a State’s implementation of
the Federal requirements of sections
an order of selection.                           Miscellaneous
110(d)(1) and 113(a) of the
## Discussion: As noted in existing
## Rehabilitation Act, which took effect Comments: Commenters
guidance, if a student with a disability July 22, 2014, to reserve and expend at recommended improvements in the
begins one or more of the required pre- least 15 percent of the State’s VR grant quality of services related to pre-
employment transition service activities on the provision of these services, and employment transition services, noting
prior to being determined eligible for VR will not harm any State. If a DSU wants a need to ensure parity of access across
services, the eligible student with a to make accounting adjustments on States with services provided by
disability may continue to receive all previously submitted financial reports, credentialed staff with skills and
pre-employment transition services for purposes of satisfying the pre- knowledge specific to students with
even if the student is assigned to a employment transition services disabilities.
closed order of selection category. In            Discussion: In accordance with 34
requirements, so that reserved funds
addition to the pre-employment                   CFR 361.48(a)(1), pre-employment
may be used to pay for the expanded
transition services, the student may             transition services must be made
costs described in the NOI, DSUs must
participate in group transition services,        available statewide to all students with
be able to document that the
as described in section 103(b)(7) of the         disabilities, regardless of whether the
expenditures were incurred for the
Rehabilitation Act and in accordance             student has applied or been determined
provision of pre-employment transition
with 34 CFR 361.49(a)(7), while in a             eligible for VR services. Within this
services or to support the receipt of
closed order of selection category. For a        context, the Department agrees there is
those services as described in the NOI.
student with a disability who has not            a need to ensure quality services and
## States should contact their
begun receiving pre-employment Rehabilitation Services Administration parity of access to students with
transition services and has been (RSA) Financial Management disabilities; however, the delivery and
determined eligible for the VR program Specialists to make changes in their provision of pre-employment transition
and placed into a closed order of expenditures reported for pre- services is unique to each State, and
selection priority category, VR agencies employment transition services. each State has the responsibility for
may provide general transition services Changes: None. ensuring that the needs of students with
that benefit a group of students with            disabilities for pre-employment
disabilities, as described above, to Changes Requiring Statutory transition services are appropriately
ensure the continuation of beneficial Amendment  met.
services. However, those students may Comments: A few commenters Changes: None.
not begin pre-employment transition requested the Department consider the Comments: Commenters posed
services (see 81 FR 55691–55693). following changes to the interpretation: specific questions and provided input
Changes: None.          (1) Allowing States to expend reserved about the implementation of pre-
funds on students who have reached the employment transition services and
## Application of Interpretation
maximum age for receiving pre- services on behalf of students with
Comments: Commenters asked if the employment transition services but disabilities, including during the
flexibilities discussed in the NOI are were unable to complete services COVID–19 pandemic, that were not
applicable to services provided, and because of the State’s statutory age limit; specific to the flexibilities addressed in
costs incurred, on or before October 1, (2) reducing the requirement for States the NOI. These included a suggestion
- 2020.                    to reserve 15 percent of their grant for collaboration between VR and the
Discussion: The Department clarifies allotment for the provision of pre- Social Security Administration related
that the effective date for the employment transition services to to work-related expenses,
interpretations in the NOI is February enable States to meet the needs of other accommodations, and benefits planning;
28, 2020. As such, the effective date is individuals seeking VR services; and (3) disability-specific flexibilities; the
well before the October 1, 2020, date making pre-employment transition negative impact of the COVID–19
mentioned by the commenters. With services available to students with pandemic on pre-employment transition
respect to the application of these disabilities who have dropped out of services; concerns for students with
flexibilities to expenditures incurred school.   disabilities found ineligible for the VR
prior to February 28, 2020, the Discussion: The Department program; the continuum of transition
Department believes it would be acknowledges the various services; and requests for clarification
reasonable and permissible to allow recommendations offered by about the differences between job
DSUs to make accounting adjustments, commenters related to extending the coaches and work site trainers.
as appropriate, to cover the costs of maximum age requirements for Discussion: The Department
these additional expenditures described receiving pre-employment transition appreciates all comments and questions
in the NOI with funds reserved for the services, reducing the amount of Federal related to the implementation of pre-
provision of pre-employment transition VR allotments States are required to employment transition services and has
services incurred at any time after July reserve for pre-employment transition addressed specific questions regarding
22, 2014, when the requirements of services to enable them to meet the the COVID–19 pandemic and the
sections 110(d) and 113 of the needs of other individuals seeking VR provision of pre-employment transition
Rehabilitation Act took effect, so long as services, and broadening the population services in Frequently Asked Questions
DSUs can document that the of individuals eligible for pre- documents posted on https://rsa.ed.gov/
expenditures were incurred for the employment transition services to whats-new?page=1. We will continue to
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:50 Mar 18, 2022 Jkt 256001 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\21MRR1.SGM 21MRR1
# SELUR
htiw
# DORP2X7Z1MJKSD
no
dnommahk


---
## Page 5




Federal Register/Vol. 87, No. 54/Monday, March 21, 2022/Rules and Regulations 15893

provide additional guidance and may use the reserved funds to pay for documents of this Department
clarification as requested on the those additional VR services that are published in the Federal Register, in
implementation of pre-employment needed by eligible students with text or PDF. To use PDF, you must have
transition services and invite direct disabilities to participate in the receipt Adobe Acrobat Reader, which is
communication with RSA State liaisons of pre-employment transition services. available free at the site.
and the National Technical Assistance These services are described in section You may also access documents of the
Center on Transition: the Collaborative 103(a) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 Department published in the Federal
(NTACT: C) funded by RSA at https:// CFR 361.48(b) and are provided in Register by using the article search
transitionta.org/.       accordance with an approved IPE. feature at www.federalregister.gov.
Changes: None.          Further, under this interpretation, the Specifically, through the advanced
Department clarifies that the flexibilities search feature at this site, you can limit
## Final Policy Interpretation
discussed in the interpretation may be your search to documents published by
## The Department maintains without
applied to services provided, and costs the Department.
change its interpretation published in
incurred, prior to February 28, 2020, at
the Federal Register on February 28,             Katherine Neas,
any time after July 22, 2014, when the
2020, and available at https://                  Deputy Assistant Secretary, delegated the
requirements of sections 110(d) and 113
www.federalregister.gov/documents/               authority to perform the functions and duties
of the Rehabilitation Act took effect—so
2020/02/28/2020-03208/state-                     of the Assistant Secretary for the Office of
long as DSUs can document
vocational-rehabilitation-services-              Special Education and Rehabilitative
program. In that interpretation, the expenditures for pre-employment Services.
transition services in any given year
Department clarified current policy that         [FR Doc. 2022–05940 Filed 3–18–22; 8:45 am]
following the amendments to the
## DSUs may use VR funds reserved under             BILLING CODE 4000–01–P
## Rehabilitation Act made by title IV of
section 110(d)(1) of the Rehabilitation
## WIOA. This interpretation is consistent
## Act and 34 CFR 361.65(a)(3)(i) to pay for
with the ‘‘Statement of the Managers to
auxiliary aids and services needed by all
## Accompany the Workforce Innovation ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
students with disabilities (i.e., both
and Opportunity Act,’’ the statutory AGENCY
eligible and potentially eligible students
purpose for the reservation of these
with disabilities) who have sensory and          40 CFR Part 180
## Federal VR funds, and the fiscal
communicative disorders to access or
requirements of the Office of
participate in pre-employment                    [EPA–HQ–OPP–2021–0656; FRL–9326–01–
## Management and Budget’s (OMB)
transition services. ‘‘Auxiliary aids and        OCSPP]
## Uniform Guidance.
services,’’ under the ADA’s title II
## Accessible Format: On request to the Alcohols, C10–16, ethoxylated,
implementing regulations in 28 CFR
35.104, includes the acquisition or program contact person listed under FOR sulfates, mono(hydroxyethyl)
modification of equipment or devices, FURTHERINFORMATIONCONTACT, ammonium salts (CAS No. 157627–92–
or other effective methods, to make individuals with disabilities can obtain 4); Tolerance Exemption
aurally delivered information available this document in an accessible format.
## Correction
to individuals who are deaf or hard of The Department will provide the
hearing, or visually delivered materials requestor with an accessible format that In Rule document 2022–01486,
available to individuals who are blind may include Rich Text Format (RTF) or appearing on pages 5703–5708, in the
or have low vision. Through this text format (txt), a thumb drive, an MP3 issue of Wednesday, February 2, 2022,
interpretation, the Department also file, braille, large print, audiotape, or make the following correction:
announced a change in policy with compact disc, or other accessible format.
§180.930 Inert ingredients applied to
respect to additional VR services needed Electronic Access to This Document:
animals; exemptions from the requirement
by eligible students with disabilities The official version of this document is of a tolerance. [Corrected]
that may be paid for with Federal VR the document published in the Federal
grant funds reserved for the provision of Register. You may access the official ■ On page 5708, the table heading
pre-employment transition services, edition of the Federal Register and the ‘‘TABLE 1 TO 180.910’’ is corrected to
including the circumstances under Code of Federal Regulations at read ‘‘TABLE 1 TO 180.930’’.
which those funds may be used to pay www.govinfo.gov. At this site you can [FR Doc. C1–2022–01486 Filed 3–18–22; 8:45 am]
for those additional VR services. DSUs view this document, as well as all other BILLING CODE 0099–10–D
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:50 Mar 18, 2022 Jkt 256001 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 9990 E:\FR\FM\21MRR1.SGM 21MRR1
# SELUR
htiw
# DORP2X7Z1MJKSD
no
dnommahk