# DCL-25-04_0




## UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES




## Date: July 17, 2025
# DCL-25-04


## Dear Colleagues:

Through this Dear Colleague Letter (DCL-25-04), the Rehabilitation Services Administration
- (RSA) is transmitting a copy of the revised Case Service Report (RSA-911) (OMB control
number 1820-0508) for the State Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) Services and State Supported
## Employment Services programs. In alignment with President Trump’s Executive Order 14168:
Defending Women From Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the
Federal Government (January 20, 2025), the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
approved a non-substantive change request to the RSA-911 on June 5, 2025. Please review
Attachment I that outlines the change to Data Element 9: Sex. All other data elements remain
unchanged.




## DCL-25-04.xlsx

## Implementation Timeline

This version of the RSA-911 becomes effective July 1, 2026, when VR agencies must begin
collecting and reporting these data for program year (PY) 2026. VR agencies must continue to
report RSA-911 data, in accordance with DCL-23-04, for PY 2025. On August 15, 2026, RSA
will have collected the fourth quarter RSA-911 reports for PY 2025 and RSA will rescind DCL-
23-04.

## Use of RSA-911 Data

RSA uses the data collected through the RSA-911 to describe the performance of the VR and
Supported Employment programs in the Annual Report to the Congress and the President as
required by Sections 13 and 101(a)(10) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Rehabilitation Act), as

amended by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA). RSA also uses these data
to assess the performance of the VR program through the calculation the WIOA performance
indicators. In addition, RSA uses these data to support its other responsibilities under the
Rehabilitation Act such as during the conduct of the annual reviews and monitoring of VR
agencies required by section 107 of the Rehabilitation.


## 400 MARYLAND AVE. S.W., WASHINGTON, DC 20202-2600
www.ed.gov
The Department of Education’s mission is to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness
by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal access.







---
## Page 2






In addition, RSA uses these data to support its other responsibilities under the Rehabilitation Act
such as during the conduct of the annual reviews and monitoring of VR agencies required by
section 107 of the Rehabilitation. Other important management activities, such as the provision
of technical assistance, program planning, and budget development are greatly enhanced through
the use of RSA-911 data. In addition, RSA uses RSA-911 data in the exchange of data with the

Social Security Administration, as required by section 131 of the Rehabilitation Act, and the
National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research within the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Finally, RSA-911 data is used widely by
researchers for disability-related analyses and reports.

## Submission Requirements

VR agencies must report RSA-911 data on a quarterly basis no later than 45 days after the end of
each quarter in accordance with the following schedule:

## 1. Reporting Period: July 1-September 30
## Report Due: November 15
## 2. Reporting Period: October 1-December 31
## Report Due: February 15
## 3. Reporting Period: January 1-March 31
## Report Due: May 15
## 4. Reporting Period: April 1-June 30

## Report Due: August 15

So that a VR agency can be considered to have met the data submission requirement, the data
must be submitted in accordance with the timeline above and be accurate.

## Electronic Submission

VR agencies must submit RSA-911 quarterly reports through the Rehabilitation Service
Administration Management Information System (RSAMIS) at rsa.ed.gov. Each VR Director is
responsible for ensuring submission and certification of RSA-911 data. The VR Director may
delegate this responsibility to another individual who is authorized to certify the data on behalf
of the VR agency. Prior to the submission of the quarterly report, the VR Director or the
individual formally delegated the authority to submit the quarterly report will be required to
certify that the RSA-911 data are true, complete, and accurate, and the expenditures reported are
for the purposes and objectives set forth in the terms and conditions of the Federal award.


## Data Element Sequence

The RSA-911 Data Elements have been categorized to indicate the point in the VR or supported
employment process when the data should be collected. The Data Elements are designed to
collect information at that particular point (e.g., application, eligibility). By collecting and




2






---
## Page 3






reporting applicable data at the correct point in the VR process, VR agencies help to ensure data
validity.

VR agencies must submit a comma delimited data file through the RSAMIS. Although some
Data Elements may be left blank, a comma delimited space must be included for each Data

Element in each submission. The Data Element number refers to the location of the reported
response in the comma delimited text string (e.g., the second comma delimited position in the
text file is the Program Year Quarter).

The RSA-911, issued in PD-19-03, included a total of 313 Data Elements. Through DCL-23-04,
RSA has deleted four Data Elements and has added seven new Data Elements. As a result, the
revised RSA-911 includes a total of 316 Data Elements. Because of these revisions, VR agencies
report 98 Data Elements blank. For example, RSA deleted Data Element 77 (Highest Elementary
or Secondary School Grade Completed at Program Entry) in DCL-23-04. Thus, VR agencies
must leave Data Element 77 blank.

The seven new Data Elements are numbered 408 through 414. For example, RSA added Data
Element 408 (Eligibility Status). For a complete list of revisions, please see Attachment I.

## Data Element Types

## Each Data Element has an associated type that serves as a guide for submitting valid values:


- •  VARCHAR n: Data can include any letters or numbers with a maximum length defined
by “n.” All variable character (VARCHAR) Data Elements that require numbers use only
positive numbers.
- •  DATE (YYYYMMDD): Data can include dates in the eight-digit format of year, month,
and day. All dates reported on the RSA-911 must be in the format of (YYYYMMDD),
where (YYYY) is year, (MM) is month and (DD) is day. For Year (YYYY), record the
calendar year using all four digits of the year (e.g., 2019). For Month (MM), record the
months using two digits (e.g., 01 for January). For Day (DD), record the day of the month
using two digits. When the day is a single digit, add a "0" prefix (e.g., 04).
- •  Decimal n,x: Data can include a decimal number with a total of number of “n” digits, of
which “x” can be after the decimal point.
- •  INT n: Data can include any integer (whole number) with a maximum length of integers

as defined by “n.” All integers must be positive.

## Reporting Requirements

RSA-911 Data Elements are mandated by the Rehabilitation Act. Applicable portions of the
Rehabilitation Act explicitly or implicitly require specific Data Elements for the VR and
Supported Employment programs. In addition, reporting requirements to support the
performance accountability system under Section 116 of title I of WIOA are applicable to the
VR program. Section 116 requires the reporting of data needed to calculate State performance on
the primary indicators of performance for the core programs. In addition, States must report
information on barriers to employment for participants under each of the core programs.

3






---
## Page 4







In accordance with 34 C.F.R. § 361.150(a)(1), for purposes of the VR program, an individual
is a “participant” if he or she has an approved individualized plan for employment (IPE) and
has begun receiving VR services. A “reportable individual,” in accordance with 34 C.F.R.
§ 361.150(b), is an individual who has taken action that demonstrates an intent to use program

services and who meets specific program criteria for reporting, which may include the provision
of identifying information, the use of a self-service system, or receipt of information-only
services or activities. The following are considered reportable individuals for the VR program:

- •  Individuals who have applied for VR services, but have not yet met the definition of
“participant;” and
- •  Students with disabilities receiving pre-employment transition services prior to applying
and being determined eligible for VR services and having an approved IPE (e.g., the
student does not meet the definition of a “participant”).

A key difference between a “participant” and “reportable individual,” for purposes of the
common performance accountability system, is that only “participants” are included in
performance calculations for determining levels of performance for the primary indicators of
performance. Furthermore, there currently is no requirement for the collection and reporting of
outcome data for reportable individuals. Only participants require six quarters of post-exit

reporting.

## Internal Controls

As stated earlier, in accordance with 34 C.F.R. § 361.12, VR agencies must implement policies
and procedures that ensure the proper and efficient administration of the VR program, including
those necessary to carry out all functions for which the State is responsible under this program.
These methods must include procedures to ensure accurate data collection and financial
accountability. It is incumbent on VR agencies to establish policies and procedures that ensure
the accurate collection, retention, and timely reporting of all data. The Uniform Administrative
Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (Uniform Guidance)
(2 C.F.R. § 200.61) defines internal controls as: a process, implemented by a non-Federal entity,
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives in the
following categories: Effectiveness and efficiency of operations; Reliability of reporting for
internal and external use; and Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.


VR agencies must establish and maintain internal control processes necessary to ensure
the State’s ability to meet the internal control requirements. RSA is responsible for the review
and monitoring of VR agencies to determine whether a State is complying substantially with the
provisions of the VR services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan. The reliability and
validity of RSA-911 data may be subject to desk review, monitoring, and/or audits. Sections
107(b) and (c) of the Act specify the remedies available to RSA if a State fails to satisfy Federal
requirements governing the VR program, including requirements related to data reporting. States
that do not meet the data reporting requirements may also face potential consequences resulting
from audit findings stemming from Inspector General, State, or Single Audits.


4






---
## Page 5






## Supporting Documentation

The requirements in 34 C.F.R. § 361.47 and 34 C.F.R. § 361.56, taken together, require VR
agencies to maintain supporting documentation in an individual’s case file, particularly regarding
eligibility determinations, development of the IPE, VR services provided, and case closure. It is

important to note that the use of a case management system does not remove the requirement for
the VR agency to maintain either hard copies or scanned copies of required supporting
documentation in the individual’s service record. A case management system is merely a data
entry process and it is susceptible to data entry errors.

On December 19, 2018, the Departments issued joint guidance titled, “Guidance for Validating
Jointly Required Performance Data Submitted under WIOA” (RSA-TAC-19-01). This guidance
provides States with a general framework for data validation. Specifically, the Departments
developed the joint guidance pursuant to Section 116(d)(5) of WIOA, which requires the
Departments to establish data validation guidelines to ensure the information contained in
program reports is valid and reliable. VR agencies must develop data validation procedures
consistent with these guidelines.

## Participant Individual Record Layout (PIRL)

The PIRL is derived from the Joint Performance Information Collection Request and provides a
standardized set of Data Elements, definitions, and reporting instructions that will be used to

describe the characteristics, activities, and outcomes of WIOA participants. Under the PIRL, a
“participant” for the purpose of the VR program is an individual who has an approved and signed
IPE and has begun to receive services. VR agencies are required to collect participant
information that corresponds with the Data Elements and descriptions delineated within the
PIRL. Once collected, RSA will aggregate this information as specified in the WIOA Annual
Statewide Performance Report Specifications, which details the common Data Elements and
technical specifications necessary for calculation of the State and Local Area performance report
elements that will be used in reporting across all core programs. Where there is a direct
correlation between a PIRL Data Element and an RSA-911 Data Element, the PIRL Data
Element number and name have been included. A list of the PIRL Data Elements and the
methodology used to calculate them is posted on the U.S. Department of Labor’s Employment
and Training Administration’s website.

## Case Service Records

The case service record documents the application for and/or provision of VR and supported

employment services to individuals with disabilities, including the outcomes they achieve. An
individual may have multiple records resulting from repeated involvement with the VR program.
For example, an individual may receive pre-employment transition services and/or other VR
services in secondary school and then years later apply for additional VR services. These two
periods of participation in the VR program constitute separate records.

VR agencies are required to report data on open records on a quarterly basis. A record is opened
either when an individual applies for VR services or, when a student with a disability begins

5






---
## Page 6






receiving pre-employment transition services. Application or receipt of pre-employment
transition services initiate the quarterly reporting requirement for all individuals with an open
record.

The case service record is considered closed when the individual has a Date of Exit and all of the

required Data Elements, including the post-exit Data Elements, when required, have been
reported. For a student with a disability who solely received pre-employment transition services
and has not applied to receive other VR services, the record is closed when the individual no
longer meets the definition of a student with a disability, as reported in RSA-911 Data Element
22 (Student with a Disability). Once a student with a disability receives a pre-employment
transition service, the student must be reported on the RSA-911 even if the student is not
receiving a pre-employment transition service in a quarter if the student meets the definition of a
student with a disability.

However, if a student with a disability has applied and been determined eligible for VR services
and has an approved and signed IPE, the student’s case service record would be “closed” when
the student satisfies the definition of “exit” at 34 CFR 361.150(c) because his or her record is
closed pursuant to 34 CFR 361.43 or 361.56. At that time, the student would be considered to
have exited the VR program for purposes of WIOA’s performance accountability system as a
participant.

For all other reportable individuals under the VR program, the individual will be determined to

have “exited” the VR program as of the date reported in RSA-911 Data Element 353 (Date of
Exit). Duplicate individual records will not be accepted. For example, records with the same
Social Security Number and Date of Application would be considered a duplicate record. If an
individual has multiple exits within the same program year, each exit must be reported and
cannot overlap. For example, if an individual had more than one Date of Application in a quarter,
the Date of Exit associated with the first application must be a date before the second Date of
## Application.

## Unique Individuals

All data submitted for the same reporting period must be associated with a unique individual.
Therefore, VR agencies must assign each individual a Unique Identifier that allows RSA to
report an unduplicated count of individuals receiving services in accordance with the WIOA
PIRL. RSA also uses the unique identifier to calculate a count of unique program participants for
each State, which will be reported on the WIOA Annual Report. In addition, the unique identifier
provides RSA a means to communicate with agencies regarding an individual without the

exchange of Personally Identifiable Information (PII). RSA will use Unique Identifier and Social
Security Number to identify a unique individual within the dataset. If an individual does not have
a Social Security Number (SSN) or chooses not to provide an SSN, only the Unique Identifier is
reported. An individual’s SSN is reported only once to RSA with the Unique Identifier. After
that, the Unique Identifier is the only Data Element reported with each quarterly report.




6






---
## Page 7






## Edit Checks

RSA will periodically update its edit checks that detail, by Data Element, the edit checks
required to ensure the integrity of data submissions and compliance with applicable statute,
regulations, and policy guidance. RSA’s edit checks describe constraints that must be satisfied

by the data. Each data submission will be analyzed to determine whether the data is consistent
with RSA’s edit checks. Data submissions that fail to pass RSA’s edit checks will be returned to
the VR agency for correction and resubmission. Any corrections made must be consistent with
the VR agency’s case management system and the supporting documentation maintained by the
VR agency. VR agencies are responsible for ensuring that any data submitted conforms to RSA’s
edit checks and data submission requirements. Compliance with RSA’s edit checks is but one
component of the VR agency’s internal controls system necessary to ensure the integrity of RSA-
911 data. VR agencies should not imply the correctness or completeness of data submissions
from compliance with the RSA’s edit checks alone.

RSA’s edits checks will also be available for testing, through the RSAMIS, when RSA is not
collecting RSA-911 quarterly reports as outlined above. RSA encourages VR agencies to test
their RSA-911 quarterly reports during these timeframes.

## Correction Procedures

Despite the rigorous internal controls VR agencies have implemented and continually refine

related to collecting and reporting accurate RSA-911 data, RSA recognizes that VR agencies will
occasionally report information that is incorrect. As a result, RSA has established three ways VR
agencies may address them. When a VR agency identifies a reporting error and regardless of the
specific correction procedure it uses to fix the error, RSA encourages the VR agency to reassess
the effectiveness of its internal controls to inform whether they should be enhanced to avoid
future errors in reporting.

## 1. Correct the error internally and report the corrected information on future RSA-911 reports
within the Program Year’s reporting period

Within the Program Year’s reporting period, VR agencies may internally correct any Data
Element, that does not identify the individual. In other words, VR agencies may update, without
## RSA’s approval, any Data Element except the following four:

## 1. Data Element 5: Unique Identifier;
## 2. Data Element 6: Social Security Number;

## 3. Data Element 7: Date of Application; and
## 4. Data Element 96: Start Date of Pre-Employment Transition Services

Example: A VR counselor records an applicant’s date of birth in the case management system
and the agency reports this date to RSA on its Q1 report. However, in Q2, the VR agency
discovers that the applicant was born on a different date. The VR agency may report the
corrected date of birth on its Q2 report. In this example, RSA will use the birthdate reported in
## Q2 in the annual report calculations.

7






---
## Page 8







Data Elements 5, 6, 7, and 96 cannot be updated, in this way, because RSA uses these Data
Elements to uniquely identify cases and track students with disabilities who receive pre-
employment transition services. If a VR agency reports information that changes these Data
Elements in future RSA-911 reports, RSA will consider this as a newly reported case. If the VR

agency is aware that one or more of these Data Elements has changed for any reason (e.g.,
correction to a Social Security Number, merge that results in a Unique ID change, inaccurate
date reported) then corrections must be made to the record on each of the previously reported
reports in RSA’s database before the VR agency may report the corrected Unique ID, SSN, Date
of Application, or Start Date of Pre-Employment Transition Services. In these instances, VR
agencies must contact RSA to request a correction per the procedures outlined next.

## 2. Request a correction to Unique Identifier, Social Security Number, Date of Application, or
## Start Date of Pre-Employment Transition Services

VR agencies must request all corrections to Data Elements, 5, 6, 7, and 96 by sending a file to
## RSAData@ed.gov. The file must include, as appropriate, the following:

- •  Previously Reported Unique ID
- •  Revised Unique ID

- •  Previously Reported Application Date
- •  Revised Application Date
- •  Revised SSN
- •  Previously Reported Start Date of Pre-Employment Transition Services
- •  Revised Start Date of Pre-Employment Transition Services

VR agencies may submit a csv file or Excel file and must use the following format:

## Previous     Revised      Previous      Revised     Revised
## Unique ID   Unique ID  Application Date Application Date SSN

## ZZ0100004239 ZZ0100004240 11/05/2015   11/15/2015    999999999
## ZZ0100004589             7/26/2016     7/26/2015
# ZZ0100012362 ZZ0100012372
## ZZ0200014876                                         555555555

Only the Data Elements requiring correction should be included in the file. If the VR agency is
only correcting the Unique ID, the VR agency should not include values for Application Date,
SSN, or Start Date of Pre-Employment Transition Services. SSNs should include all nine
numbers without dashes. The csv or Excel file must be encrypted if it contains SSNs.

All corrections to Data Elements 5, 6, 7, and 96 must be submitted within 44 days after the
quarter. In other words, RSA will not accept correction requests submitted on the 45th day when
the quarterly report is due by 11:59PM Eastern. This change is necessary to ensure RSA is able

to make corrections to the database in a timely manner and ensure all VR agencies meet the
reporting deadline.

8






| Previous
Unique ID | Revised
Unique ID | Previous
Application Date | Revised
Application Date | Revised
SSN |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ZZ0100004239 | ZZ0100004240 | 11/05/2015 | 11/15/2015 | 999999999 |
| ZZ0100004589 |  | 7/26/2016 | 7/26/2015 |  |
| ZZ0100012362 | ZZ0100012372 |  |  |  |
| ZZ0200014876 |  |  |  | 555555555 |



---
## Page 9






## 3. Request that RSA Disapprove an RSA-911 Report and Resubmit

Finally, VR agencies may request that RSA disapprove a submitted RSA-911 report so the VR
agency may resubmit with corrected information. If a VR agency submits an RSA-911 report
and later identifies that it reported widespread errors related to the WIOA performance

indicators, it may be more effective to resubmit the report in its entirety. VR agencies may
request that RSA disapprove a quarterly report by emailing RSAData@ed.gov. The email must
include the following information:

- •  VR Agency Name;
- •  Program Year and Quarter
- •  Justification to resubmit quarterly report; and
- •  Summary of refinements the VR agency has made to its internal control to prevent
incorrect reporting in the future.

If approved, RSA will inform the VR agency the date by which the VR agency must resubmit the
quarterly report. RSA will only consider requests to disapprove quarterly reports and allow VR

agencies to resubmit them if the request is made within the Program Year’s reporting period. For
example, if a VR agency requests to resubmit its Program Year 2024 Q1, Q2, Q3, or Q4 report
before August 15, 2025 (when the Program Year 2024 reporting period concludes), RSA will
consider the request. If a VR agency requests to resubmit a prior Program Year’s quarterly report
and the reporting period for that Program Year has concluded, RSA will not consider this
request.

RSA reminds VR agencies that it must use the RSA-911 data submitted as of August 15, when
the fourth quarter’s reporting period concludes, to produce the WIOA Annual Reports. As a
result, RSA will not accept data corrections after August 15. RSA will review changes made to
Data Elements and reserves the right to reject changes VR agencies propose for all Data
## Elements.

## Inquiries

Please email any questions related to the revised RSA-911 to RSAData@ed.gov.



## Sincerely,




## Christopher Pope
## Director, State Monitoring and Program Improvement Division,
delegated the authority to perform the functions
and duties of the Commissioner

## Attachment

9






---
## Page 10




## Attachment I: Summary of Revisions to Case Service Report (RSA-911)

OMB     RSA Title                Prior ICR Reporting Requirements ICR Reporting Requirements Effective in FFY 2026
## Control #

1820-0508 Case Service Report (RSA-911) Data Element 9 – Gender: Report the Data Element 9 – Sex: Report the individual’s
individual’s gender. If the individual sex. If unknown, report code 9 [Unknown].
discloses any gender other than Male or
## Female report code 3 [Nonbinary or
another gender]. If the individual does
not want to disclose gender information,
report code 9 [Prefer not to answer].

## Code Values:              Code Values:

1 = Male                  1 = Male
2 = Female                2 = Female
3 = Nonbinary or another gender 9 = Unknown
9 = Prefer not to answer


























| OMB
Control # | RSA Title | Prior ICR Reporting Requirements | ICR Reporting Requirements Effective in FFY 2026 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1820-0508 | Case Service Report (RSA-911) | Data Element 9 – Gender: Report the
individual’s gender. If the individual
discloses any gender other than Male or
Female report code 3 [Nonbinary or
another gender]. If the individual does
not want to disclose gender information,
report code 9 [Prefer not to answer].
Code Values:
1 = Male
2 = Female
3 = Nonbinary or another gender
9 = Prefer not to answer | Data Element 9 – Sex: Report the individual’s
sex. If unknown, report code 9 [Unknown].
Code Values:
1 = Male
2 = Female
9 = Unknown |
