# DCL-23-02




## UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES
## REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION



## Date: June 23, 2023

# DCL-23-02

## Dear Colleagues:

The purpose of this letter is to inform State Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) agencies of the
Rehabilitation Services Administration’s (RSA) change in interpretation of the word
“recipient,” for purposes of determining satisfaction of the carryover requirement of section
19(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Rehabilitation Act) (29 U.S.C. § 716(b)) and 34
C.F.R. § 361.64(b). For reasons described below, this change in RSA’s interpretation affects
only the VR program when there are two VR agencies in a State (General and Blind); it does
not affect the State Supported Employment Services program.

Effective immediately, the determination pursuant to section 19(b) of the Rehabilitation Act
and 34 C.F.R. § 361.64(b) whether a recipient of Federal VR funds has matched any
available unobligated funds and, therefore may carry them over to the subsequent fiscal year,
will be viewed at the State level, rather than each separate VR agency. This means, for
example, that if a State satisfied the match requirement for the State in Federal Fiscal Year
- (FFY) 2022 by one VR agency providing sufficient match for both VR agencies by
September 30, 2022, pursuant to section 101(a)(3) of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. §

721(a)(3)) and 34 C.F.R. § 361.60(a), and those funds remain available for obligation at this
time, then both VR agencies in the State may carry over those FFY 2022 funds. The opposite
is also true. For example, if the General VR agency only matches the obligation for the
portion of the State’s VR funds designated to it, and the Blind agency does not meet its
match for the portion of the State’s VR funds administered by it, under section 19 of the
Rehabilitation Act, the State will have not matched its total VR funds for carryover purposes.
That is, RSA will no longer determine satisfaction of the carryover requirement of section 19
of the Rehabilitation Act on the basis of whether a VR agency separately satisfied the match
requirement.

We believe that this interpretation of the word “recipient” as the “State” is the best reading of
the applicable statutory provisions and ensures better implementation of the match
requirements of section 101(a)(3) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.60(b).
Specifically, by requiring the State as a whole, not each VR agency in the State, to satisfy the
match requirement for the VR program, the benefits and impact of the VR program are likely
to be greater. Therefore, this is now the method for determining whether VR funds may be
carried over pursuant to section 19(b) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.64(b).

This change in RSA interpretation for the VR programs does not include or affect the
Supported Employment program because, under those specific provisions, it is clear that the
match requirement must be satisfied by the designated State agency, not the State (see

section 606(b)(7)(I) of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. §795k(b)(7)(I)) and 34 C.F.R. §

## 400 MARYLAND AVE. S.W., WASHINGTON, DC 20202-2800
www.ed.gov
The Department of Education’s mission is to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness
by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal access.


---
## Page 2



## Page 2



363.23(a)(2)(i)). Because the designated State agency for the Supported Employment
program is the only entity that can satisfy the match requirement, for purposes of determining
carryover under section 19(b) of the Rehabilitation Act, only the designated State agency can
constitute the “recipient” for purposes of the Supported Employment program. This
interpretation is consistent with RSA’s current policy and practice for determining carryover
under the Supported Employment program.

If you have any questions, please reach out to your agency’s RSA Financial Management
## Specialist. Thank you for your attention to this important update.


## Sincerely,

/s/


## Carol L. Dobak
## Deputy Commissioner,
delegated the authority to perform the
functions and duties of the Commissioner
































