# DCL-25-03





## UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES
## REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
# COMMISSIONER


## Date: July 17, 2025
# DCL-25-03

## Dear Colleagues:


In alignment with President Trump’s Executive Order 14168: Defending Women From Gender
Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government (January 20,
2025), the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approved non-substantive change requests
to three information collection requests managed by the Rehabilitation Services Administration
- (RSA) on June 5, 2025. These changes apply to the annual performance reports for the following
## RSA formula grant programs:

- •  Independent Living Services for Older Individuals Who Are Blind;
- •  Client Assistance Program; and
- •  Protection and Advocacy of Individual Rights

Attached are the details of changes related to the collection and reporting of the sex of
individuals served by these programs. Data collection in alignment with these changes will begin
October 1, 2025; data reporting in alignment with these changes will occur following the
conclusion of Federal fiscal year 2026 (i.e., October 1, 2026, through December 31, 2026).


## If you have any questions, please contact the appropriate RSA Project Officer:

- •  IL-OIB: Zunaira.Wasif@ed.gov
- •  CAP: April.Trice@ed.gov
- •  PAIR: Samuel.Pierre@ed.gov

## Thank you for your continued partnership in administering these programs.

## Sincerely,




## Christopher Pope
## Director, State Monitoring and Program Improvement Division,
delegated the authority to perform the functions and
duties of the Commissioner

## Attachment I: Description of Changes

## 400 MARYLAND AVE. S.W., WASHINGTON, DC 20202-2600
www.ed.gov
The Department of Education’s mission is to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness
by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal access.




---
## Page 2





## Attachment I: Description of Changes

## These instructions update the collection of data regarding the sex of individuals served, as detailed in the following table:

OMB     RSA Title     Prior ICR Reporting Requirements      ICR Reporting Requirements Effective in FFY 2026
## Control #

1820-0608 Independent Living Part III: Data on Individuals Served: C. Gender Part III: Data on Individuals Served: C. Sex
## Services for Older
## Individuals Who are 1.Individual self-identifies as female 1.Female
## Blind Annual  2.Individual self-identifies as male  2.Male
## Performance Report 3.Individuals who did not self-identify gender 3.Unknown
# (7-OB)
1820-0528 Client Assistance Part III. Program Data B. Gender Part III. Program Data B. Sex
## Program Annual
## Performance Report 1.Females                        1.Females
(RSA-227)     2.Males                               2.Males
3.Nonbinary or Another Gender         3.Unknown
4.Unknown

## Instructions                          Instructions

Gender: Enter the number of individuals served according Sex: Enter the number of individuals served according to their
to their gender. Do not count an individual more than sex. Do not count an individual more than once.
once.

1820-0627 Protection and Part III. Statistical Information of Individuals Served: Part III. Statistical Information of Individuals Served
## Advocacy of   B.Gender of Individuals Served        B.Sex of Individuals Served
## Individual Rights
- (PAIR) Annual 1.Females                             1.Females
## Performance Report 2.Males                          2.Males
(RSA-509)     3.Nonbinary or another gender         3.Unknown
4.Unknown











| OMB
Control # | RSA Title | Prior ICR Reporting Requirements | ICR Reporting Requirements Effective in FFY 2026 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1820-0608 | Independent Living
Services for Older
Individuals Who are
Blind Annual
Performance Report
(7-OB) | Part III: Data on Individuals Served: C. Gender
1.Individual self-identifies as female
2.Individual self-identifies as male
3.Individuals who did not self-identify gender | Part III: Data on Individuals Served: C. Sex
1.Female
2.Male
3.Unknown |
| 1820-0528 | Client Assistance
Program Annual
Performance Report
(RSA-227) | Part III. Program Data B. Gender
1.Females
2.Males
3.Nonbinary or Another Gender
4.Unknown
Instructions
Gender: Enter the number of individuals served according
to their gender. Do not count an individual more than
once. | Part III. Program Data B. Sex
1.Females
2.Males
3.Unknown
Instructions
Sex: Enter the number of individuals served according to their
sex. Do not count an individual more than once. |
| 1820-0627 | Protection and
Advocacy of
Individual Rights
(PAIR) Annual
Performance Report
(RSA-509) | Part III. Statistical Information of Individuals Served:
B.Gender of Individuals Served
1.Females
2.Males
3.Nonbinary or another gender
4.Unknown | Part III. Statistical Information of Individuals Served
B.Sex of Individuals Served
1.Females
2.Males
3.Unknown |
