# DCL-24-03





## UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES
## REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
# COMMISSIONER

## Date: May 20, 2024

# DCL-24-03

## Dear Colleagues:

As we observe Mental Health Awareness Month throughout May, please join me in recognizing
the importance of mental health and the power of the vocational rehabilitation (VR) program to
help individuals with mental health conditions live fulfilling and meaningful lives.

As President Biden noted in his recent proclamation, our country faces an unprecedented mental
health crisis among people of all ages. Rates of anxiety and depression have increased
significantly in recent years, driven by trauma related to the COVID-19 pandemic, social injustice,
and other stressors. Furthermore, we know that nearly a third of VR program participants have
psychological or psychiatric disabilities. The effects of these conditions act as barriers to
competitive integrated employment and integration into the community.

Fortunately, VR agencies are ready and able to support eligible individuals with disabilities who

are seeking to enter the workforce, maintain their employment, or advance in their careers.
Through the provision of supported employment services and other VR services, VR agencies
collectively serve as a key part of the national network of Federal, State, and local government
agencies and other stakeholders that help to ensure mental health care is readily available to all
## Americans.

There are many mental health resources from across the spectrum of Federal government agencies,
including:
- •  The National Institute of Mental Health: Caring for Your Mental Health
- •  Centers for Disease Control & Prevention: Promoting Mental Health & Well-Being in
## Schools
- •  Substance Abuse & Mental Health Services Administration: The Food and Mood Project
- •  Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services: Addressing & Improving Behavioral Health


I encourage you to leverage the VR program and its resources, and other tools at our disposal, to
help VR program participants navigate the challenges they are facing. By acting together—in true
partnership—we can achieve the best outcomes for individuals with disabilities.

## Sincerely,



## Danté Q. Allen



## 400 MARYLAND AVE. S.W., WASHINGTON, DC 20202-2600
www.ed.gov
The Department of Education’s mission is to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness
by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal access.