# FAQ%2023-01







# U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES
## REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
## August 11, 2023
# FAQ 23-01

## Frequently Asked Questions

Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) Core Program1 Performance Accountability
## Assessment for Program Year (PY) 2022

Consistent with the Joint WIOA Final Rule requirements,2 the U.S. Departments of Labor and
## Education (the Departments) have determined it is appropriate and reasonable for PY 2022 for the:


- • U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) to assess performance for four performance indicators
under WIOA title I core programs and three performance indicators under the Employment
## Service (referred to as “WIOA title III”) core program;
- • U.S. Department of Education (ED) to assess performance for four performance indicators
under the Vocational Rehabilitation (“WIOA title IV”) core program; and
- • Departments to delay assessing performance for the WIOA title II core program and for the
remaining performance indicators in the WIOA titles I, III, and IV core programs to
provide for the orderly transition from the requirements of the Workforce Investment Act
of 1998 (WIA) to those of WIOA, as permitted under section 503(a) of WIOA.

The Departments’ determinations, as will be described more fully herein, are consistent with the

phased-in approach3 to performance assessments described in Technical Assistance Circular
- (TAC) 20-02: Negotiations and Sanctions Guidance for the Workforce Innovation and
## Opportunity Act (WIOA) Core Programs reissued on May 10, 2023.

## Summary

The Departments have determined it is appropriate and reasonable to assess performance for the
WIOA title I, III, and IV core programs for PY 2022 for the following performance indicators as
applicable:

- • Employment Rate 2nd Quarter after Exit;


## 1 These six core programs are the Adult, Dislocated Worker, and Youth programs, authorized under WIOA title I and
administered by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL); the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (AEFLA)
program, authorized under WIOA title II and administered by the U.S. Department of Education (ED); the
Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III and
administered by DOL; and the Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV and administered by ED.
## 2 See 20 C.F.R. § 677.190(c) and 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.190(c) and 463.190(c).
## 3 This guidance is a statement of the Departments’ policy regarding WIOA. Other than statutory and regulatory
requirements included in this document, the contents of this guidance do not have the force and effect of law. This
document is intended only to provide clarity regarding existing requirements under the applicable law or agency
policies.
1




---
## Page 2







- • Median Earnings 2nd Quarter after Exit;
- • Employment Rate 4th Quarter after Exit; and
- • Credential Attainment Rate.

The Departments have determined that the available baseline data are not sufficient to produce
reliable estimates using the required statistical adjustment model for the remaining performance
indicators. Therefore, the Departments have determined it is necessary to use their transition
authority, pursuant to section 503(a) of WIOA, to delay assessment of:


- • Measurable Skill Gains Rate for the WIOA titles I and IV core programs;
- • All performance indicators for the WIOA title II core program;
- • The Overall State Indicator Scores; and
- • The Overall State Program Scores for the WIOA titles I, II, and IV programs.

This means the Departments will not assess performance for the purpose of imposing sanctions for
the above performance indicators for PY 2022 but will continue to use performance data for
effective program management, oversight, monitoring, and continuous improvement.

States still must submit timely and complete performance reports for PY 2022 and will be
sanctioned for failure to do so.4 If a state is unable to submit complete and timely performance
reports by October 2, 2023, due to exceptional circumstances outside of the state’s control, it must

notify the Departments pursuant to 20 C.F.R. § 677.185(c) and 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.185(c) and
463.185(c) and consistent with guidance set forth in TAC 20-02. The practical implications of the
Departments’ decision on sanctions implementation are explained in a series of questions and
answers below.

With respect to the title II core program, states report aggregate data once annually, resulting in
fewer available variables and four times less data than is generated for the titles I, III, and IV core
programs, each year for use in the statistical adjustment model. As a result, it is taking more time
for the title II model to yield reliable estimates for purposes of that program; however, with each
additional year’s worth of data, the Departments have noticed improvement in the model’s ability
to produce reliable estimates. This continued and steady improvement constitutes progress toward
the Departments’ ability to assess all performance indicators for all core programs. In the
meantime, the Departments have determined it is necessary to use the transition authority in
section 503(a) of WIOA to provide for the orderly transition to the WIOA performance
accountability requirements for all core programs.


## Background

## Section 116 of WIOA establishes primary performance indicators that apply to the six core
programs and reporting requirements that assess states’ effectiveness in achieving positive
outcomes for individuals and employers served by WIOA’s six core programs.5 WIOA also


## 4 See 20 C.F.R. § 677.185(a) and 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.185(a) and 463.185(a).
## 5 As stated in 20 C.F.R. § 677.150(d) and 34 C.F.R. § 361.150(d) and § 463.150(d), the negotiations and sanctions

2





---
## Page 3







requires that the Departments use a statistical adjustment model to assess state performance by
adjusting negotiated performance levels for the characteristics of participants actually served
throughout the program year and for the actual economic conditions within the state. WIOA
requires the Departments to use the model to assess state performance and determine whether a
state has failed to meet its adjusted levels of performance. The Departments developed a model
and process6 for this purpose. To date, the implementation of a model and the performance
accountability provisions have informed the Departments’ performance negotiations with states
and technical assistance efforts and have advanced the workforce system toward a more objective
and data-driven accountability structure.

WIOA instituted a new approach to performance accountability in the workforce system, and the
Departments find it is taking longer to collect sufficient baseline data to produce reliable estimates
from the statistical adjustment model for certain performance indicators and for certain core

programs than had been anticipated. The Departments remain focused and committed to collecting
performance data and promoting robust practices related to data collection, data integrity, and
complete reporting. As additional data are collected, the Departments will continue to review and
refine the statistical adjustment model. Section 503(a) of WIOA authorizes the Secretaries of
Education and Labor to take such action as appropriate to provide for the orderly transition from
any requirement under WIA to those under WIOA, including those related to the performance
accountability system established in section 116 of WIOA. The Departments have determined that
it would be inappropriate to assess for performance pursuant to section 116(b)(3)(A) of WIOA and
## 20 C.F.R. § 677.190, and 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.190 and 463.190, and to impose sanctions pursuant to
section 116(f) of WIOA, on a state on the basis of a statistical adjustment model for which the
available baseline data are not sufficient to produce reliable estimates.

Use of WIOA’s transition authority to delay assessing performance and imposing sanctions is an
appropriate action for an orderly transition to the WIOA performance accountability system,
because of the performance accountability system’s reliance on the statistical adjustment model.
Therefore, the Departments determined that it is necessary to use the transition authority in section

503(a) of WIOA to delay assessing performance and imposing sanctions against states that fail to
meet adjusted levels of performance for those Individual Indicator Scores, as well as for the
Overall State Program Scores and the Overall State Indicator Scores, for which the baseline data
are not sufficient. For more information on the Departments’ determination, please review
## Attachment II.

However, the Departments have determined there are now sufficient baseline data for the
statistical adjustment model to yield consistently reliable results for most of the performance
indicators for the WIOA titles I, III, and IV core programs. Therefore, the Departments have
determined it is appropriate for DOL and ED to begin assessing performance for those
performance indicators for PY 2022 in accordance with joint WIOA regulations and the phased-in


process only applies to states as defined in sec. 3(56) of WIOA – each of the several states of the United States, the
District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. It does not apply to the outlying areas as defined in
WIOA sec. 3(45)—American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the U.S. Virgin
## Islands, and the Republic of Palau.
## 6 TAC 20-02: Negotiations and Sanctions Guidance for the WIOA Core Programs, available at
https://rsa.ed.gov/sites/default/files/subregulatory/RSA-TAC-20-02_0.pdf
3





---
## Page 4







approach to performance assessments described in TAC 20-02. The Departments, as permitted
under section 503(a) of WIOA, will delay assessing performance for the purpose of imposing
sanctions for the remaining performance indicators. The following questions and answers explain
what this means in practical terms.

Q1: For which primary indicators of performance and for which core programs will the
## Departments assess state performance for PY 2022?

DOL and ED will assess state performance for the following Individual Indicator Scores for the
## WIOA titles I and IV core programs:
- • Employment Rate 2nd Quarter after Exit;
- • Median Earnings 2nd Quarter after Exit;

- • Employment Rate 4th Quarter after Exit; and
- • Credential Attainment Rate.

DOL will assess state performance for the following Individual Indicator Scores for the WIOA
title III core program:
- • Employment Rate 2nd Quarter after Exit;
- • Median Earnings 2nd Quarter after Exit; and
- • Employment Rate 4th Quarter after Exit.7


DOL will also assess state performance for the Overall State Program Score for the WIOA title III
core program since DOL will be assessing all of the Individual Indicator Scores applicable to that
program. See Attachments I and II for additional information.

Q2: What happens if a state has a performance failure with respect to its WIOA titles I, III, and IV
core program Individual Indicator Scores and WIOA title III core program Overall State Program
## Score for PY 2022?

If a WIOA title I, III, or IV core program fails to achieve an Individual Indicator Score of at least
50%, as described on page 13 of TAC 20-02, for the Employment Rate 2nd Quarter after Exit,
Median Earnings 2nd Quarter after Exit, Employment Rate 4th Quarter after Exit, or Credential
Attainment Rate indicators in PY 2022, the state must receive technical assistance and develop a
performance improvement plan in accordance with section 116(f)(1)(A) of WIOA. If the state fails
the same Individual Indicator Score for the same program in PY 2023, the Departments must
impose a financial sanction in accordance with section 116(f)(1)(B) of WIOA.


If a WIOA title III core program fails to achieve an Overall State Program Score of at least 90% in
PY 2022, as described on page 13 of TAC 20-02, the state must receive technical assistance and
develop a performance improvement plan in accordance with section 116(f)(1)(A) of WIOA. If a
state WIOA title III core program fails to achieve an Overall State Program Score of 90% again in
PY 2023, the Departments must impose a financial sanction in accordance with section
116(f)(1)(B) of WIOA.


## 7 The Credential Attainment Rate and Measurable Skill Gains Rate performance indicators are not applicable to the
## WIOA title III core program, pursuant to section 116(b)(2)(A)(i).
4





---
## Page 5








Q3: Will the Departments suspend WIOA performance reporting for PY 2022?

No, states must submit complete and timely performance information as they have done since PY
2016.

Q4: Will states be subject to sanctions for failure to submit complete and timely reports for PY
2022?

Yes, states are subject to sanctions for failure to submit complete and timely performance reports
for all six core programs, as has been true since PY 2017. Failing to certify complete PY 2022
annual performance reports by October 2, 2023, could lead to a financial sanction through a
reduction of a state’s PY 2023 Governor’s Reserve funds8. For details regarding complete and

timely reporting and requesting an annual reporting extension, refer to pages 11-13 of TAC 20-02.

Q5: If the Departments are not using the data to assess performance, how will the Departments
use performance data from PY 2022?

The Departments will continue to use the data for the purposes of effective program management,
system oversight, monitoring and internal controls, and the provision of technical assistance,
including implementing methods for ensuring data reliability, as appropriate. The Departments
will share performance results with states as appropriate. States should expect to review
performance data for PY 2022 and prepare to engage with Federal staff to discuss, among other
topics, data quality, continuous improvement, and performance results. All data reported by states,
even those not used for performance assessment in a particular PY, benefit the statistical
adjustment model used by the Departments by increasing the amount of data input, thereby
enabling the model to produce more reliable results in the future.

Q6: Does the Departments’ decision regarding assessing for performance for PY 2022 apply to

## PY 2023 too?

No, the Departments’ decision to assess state performance for certain performance indicators and
overall scores based on the reliability of the statistical adjustment model applies to PY 2022 only.
The Departments’ decision for PY 2022 is based on a determination that sufficient baseline data
are available to produce reliable estimates using the statistical adjustment model for the indicators
that will be assessed for performance. In an effort to accelerate the full implementation of WIOA
performance accountability requirements, the Departments will make a separate assessment of the
model’s reliability for PY 2023, rather than making a determination to delay assessments for both
program years at this time. The Departments are therefore advancing performance assessment
consistent with the reliability, and therefore readiness, of the data yielded by the statistical
adjustment model, and, for those indicators for which assessment is delayed in PY 2022, will
make a determination anew for PY 2023 with the benefit of another year’s worth of data input for
the model.



## 8 This refers to a percentage of the state’s WIOA title I allotment that the state’s Governor is allowed to reserve for
statewide activities under sec. 128(a) of WIOA (29 U.S.C. § 36163(a)).
5





---
## Page 6







Attachment I: Individual Indicator Scores and Overall State Program Score Subject to
## Performance Assessment in PY 2022

Primary   Title I Title I  Title I Title II Title III Title IV Overall
## Indicator/ Adult  Dislocated Youth AEFLA  Wagner-  Vocational  State
## Core             Worker                  Peyser Rehabilitation Indicator
## Program                                                        Score
## Employment   Yes     Yes     Yes     No      Yes      Yes        No
## Rate 2nd Qtr
after Exit
## Employment   Yes     Yes     Yes     No      Yes      Yes        No

## Rate 4th Qtr
after Exit
## Median       Yes     Yes     Yes      No     Yes      Yes        No
## Earnings 2nd
## Qtr after Exit
## Credential   Yes     Yes     Yes     No               Yes        No
## Attainment
## Rate
## Measurable   No      No       No     No               No         No
## Skill Gains
## Rate
## Effectiveness N/A    N/A     N/A     N/A     N/A      N/A        N/A
in Serving

## Employers
## Overall    No      No       No     No      Yes      No          -
## State
## Program
## Score



















6





| Primary
Indicator/
Core
Program | Title I
Adult | Title I
Dislocated
Worker | Title I
Youth | Title II
AEFLA | Title III
Wagner-
Peyser | Title IV
Vocational
Rehabilitation | Overall
State
Indicator
Score |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Employment
Rate 2nd Qtr
after Exit | Yes | Yes | Yes | No | Yes | Yes | No |
| Employment
Rate 4th Qtr
after Exit | Yes | Yes | Yes | No | Yes | Yes | No |
| Median
Earnings 2nd
Qtr after Exit | Yes | Yes | Yes | No | Yes | Yes | No |
| Credential
Attainment
Rate | Yes | Yes | Yes | No |  | Yes | No |
| Measurable
Skill Gains
Rate | No | No | No | No |  | No | No |
| Effectiveness
in Serving
Employers | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A |
| Overall
State
Program
Score | No | No | No | No | Yes | No | - |



---
## Page 7







## Attachment II: Use of Transition Authority

## Use of WIOA Transition Authority for Individual Indicator Scores

For purposes of the WIOA titles I and IV core programs (the Adult, Dislocated Worker, Youth,
and Vocational Rehabilitation programs), the Departments have determined that the statistical
adjustment model is yielding reliable results for the following performance indicators for purposes
of assessing the Individual Indicator Score, pursuant to 20 C.F.R. § 677.190(c)(5) and 34 C.F.R.
§§ 361.190(c)(5):
- • Employment Rate 2nd Quarter after Exit;
- • Median Earnings 2nd Quarter after Exit;

- • Employment Rate 4th Quarter after Exit; and
- • Credential Attainment Rate.

For purposes of the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service program (referred to as “WIOA title
III”), the Departments have determined that the statistical adjustment model is yielding reliable
results for the following performance indicators for purposes of assessing the Individual Indicator
## Score, pursuant to 20 C.F.R. § 677.190(c)(5):
- • Employment Rate 2nd Quarter after Exit;
- • Median Earnings 2nd Quarter after Exit; and
- • Employment Rate 4th Quarter after Exit.9


Therefore, the Departments have determined there is no need to use the transition authority of
section 503(a) of WIOA for purposes of delaying assessing the Individual Indicator Score for
these four indicators for the WIOA titles I and IV core programs and three indicators for the
## WIOA title III core programs.

However, the Departments have determined that the baseline data, which includes economic
variables required by the statute, for the other indicators and core programs are not sufficient for
the statistical adjustment model to yield consistently reliable results. For these performance
indicators and programs, more baseline data are necessary for the model to yield reliable results.
Therefore, the Departments have determined it necessary to continue to use the transition authority
in section 503(a) of WIOA in PY 2022 to delay assessing performance and imposing sanctions
for:
- • Measurable Skill Gains Rate for the WIOA titles I and IV core programs, pursuant to 20

## C.F.R. § 677.190(c)(5) and 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.190(c)(5); and
- • All performance indicators for the WIOA title II AEFLA core program, pursuant to 34
## C.F.R. § 463.190(c)(5).

## Section 116 of WIOA requires that the Departments use the same participant characteristics and
economic conditions in the statistical adjustment model for all primary indicators of performance.
This requirement has proved challenging, especially in the case of the Measurable Skill Gains


## 9 Pursuant to section 116(b)(2)(A)(i) of WIOA, the Credential Attainment Rate and Measurable Skill Gains Rate
indicators are not applicable to the Wagner-Peyser program.

7





---
## Page 8







Rate, where there is little empirical evidence that the economic conditions within the state have a
meaningful effect on state performance. Nevertheless, with each PY’s worth of data added to the
statistical adjustment model, its ability to produce reliable estimates improves considerably.
Despite the challenges faced by the Departments with respect to the Measurable Skill Gains Rate
indicator for the titles I, II, and IV core programs to date, the Departments are increasingly
confident the model will produce reliable estimates for this indicator for most applicable programs
in PY 2023.

Use of WIOA Transition Authority for Overall State Indicator Score and Overall Program
## Score

While the model is yielding reliable results for certain performance indicators for the WIOA titles
I, III, and IV core programs, the Departments have concluded it would not be reasonable to assess

an Overall State Indicator Score, as required by 20 C.F.R. § 677.190(c)(3) and 34 C.F.R. §
361.190(c)(3), because such a score would not be an accurate representation of the state’s overall
performance across all core programs on any of the indicators.

Similarly, the Departments have determined it would not be reasonable to assess an Overall State
Program Score by considering only four performance indicators for which there are reliable data
for the WIOA titles I and IV core programs (20 C.F.R. § 677.190(c)(1) and 34 C.F.R. §
361.190(c)(1)). The Departments have determined that it would be reasonable to assess an Overall
State Program Score for the WIOA title III core programs because such a score takes into account
all of the Individual Indicator Scores applicable to this program, as required by 20 C.F.R. §
677.190(c)(2).

Therefore, the Departments have determined it necessary to use the transition authority in section
503(a) of WIOA to delay assessing performance for Overall State Indicator Scores and Overall
State Program Scores, with the exception of the WIOA title III core program’s Overall State
Program score, and for imposing sanctions for any state that fails in accordance with 20 C.F.R. §

677.190(d)(1) and 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.190(d)(1) and 463.190(d)(1), for PY 2022.


















8


