# im-01-18







# U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND
# REHABILITATIVE SERVICES
## REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
# WASHINGTON,  D.C. 20202

# INFORMATION MEMORANDUM
# RSA-IM-01-18
## DATE: December 18, 2000


## TO      : STATE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION AGENCIES (GENERAL)

## STATE VOCAITONAL REHABILITATION AGENCIES (BLIND)
## REGIONAL REHABILITATION CONTINUING EDUCATION
# PROGRAMS
# CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
## PROTECTION  & ADVOCACY OF INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS
# STATE REHABILITATION COUNCIL
# RSA SENIOR MANAGEMENT  TEAM


## SUBJECT:  Development of National Registry for the Deaf-Blind

## The Helen Keller National Center (HKNC) is a national
rehabilitation program authorized by the Helen Keller National
Center Act, as amended (HKNC Act), to provide services for youth
and adults who are deaf-blind. Recent amendments to the HKNC
Act authorize the HKNC to establish and maintain a registry of
individuals who are deaf-blind in order to assist the Center in

providing services to this population.

## Historically, the deaf-blind population has been underreported.
## Although the definition of an "individual who is deaf-blind,"
contained in the HKNC Act (see attached), has been commonly
accepted by State vocational rehabilitation (VR) agencies, this
population is reported inconsistently on the RSA-911. For example,
in FY 1998, only 456 individuals nationally were reported as being
"deaf-blind," using codes 290-298; an additional 27 were listed with
“deaf-blindness” as a secondary disability, 153 indicated
“blindness” as major and “deafness” as secondary and 19 reported
“deafness” as major and “blindness” as secondary.













---
## Page 2







## Page 2

## In order to develop and provide adequate services to this
population, the HKNC has determined that an accurate census is
necessary and plans to establish a voluntary national registry for
individuals who are deaf-blind. All personal information contained
in the registry will be kept confidential and will not be released to
anyone outside of the HKNC without the individual's specific written
consent.

## Enclosed are a letter from Joseph McNulty, Director of HKNC,
asking for your assistance in identifying individuals who may want

to be included in this registry and a blank registry form. Please
circulate these items to key people within your organization who
can distribute them to individuals who are deaf-blind and/or their
parents or guardians. Although registration is voluntary, if an
individual chooses to register he or she must provide, at a
minimum, his/her name, address, date of birth and some indication
of deafness and blindness. Return completed registration forms to
the HKNC.

## The Rehabilitation Services Administration (RSA) encourages your
support in distributing these materials to those individuals who may
wish to be included in the HKNC registry. Be sure to inform these
individuals that registering with the HKNC is completely voluntary.
## Grantees are responsible for complying with requirements in their
applicable program regulations governing confidentiality of personal
information; therefore, grantees should not release personal
information to the HKNC, on behalf of individuals who are deaf-

blind, without first receiving the individual's informed written
consent.


## INQUIRIES TO: Joe D. Cordova, Director
## Division for the Blind and Visually Impaired

CITATION: Helen Keller National Center Act, 29 USC 1901 et seq.


/s/
## Fredric K. Schroeder, Ph.D.
## Commissioner
cc:  CSAVR/NCSAB
# NCIL
# NAPAS









---
## Page 3







## Attachment #1


## The HKNC Act defines an "individual who is deaf-blind" as being an individual:

(A)(i) who has a central visual acuity of 20/200 or less in the better eye
with corrective lenses, or a field defect such that the peripheral
diameter of visual field subtends an angular distance no greater
than 20 degrees, or a progressive visual loss having a prognosis
leading to one or both these conditions;

- (ii) who has a chronic hearing impairment so severe that most speech

cannot be understood with optimum amplification, or a progressive
hearing loss having a prognosis leading to this condition; and

- (iii) for whom the combination of impairments described in clauses (i)
and (ii) cause extreme difficulty in attaining independence in daily
life activities, achieving psychosocial adjustment, or obtaining a
vocation; or

- (B)  who, despite the inability to be measured accurately for hearing and
vision loss due to cognitive or behavioral constraints, or both, can
be determined through functional and performance assessment to
have severe hearing and visual disabilities that cause extreme
difficulty in attaining independence in daily life activities, achieving
psychosocial adjustment, or obtaining vocational objectives; or

- (C)  meets such other requirements as the Secretary may prescribe by
regulations.


# (29 USC 1905(2)).























---
## Page 4







## Attachment #2



## To Whom it May Concern:

The Helen Keller National Center is a national rehabilitation facility funded
by the federal government to provide services for youths and adults who are
deaf-blind. Recently, our mandate was broadened to allow us to develop and
maintain a registry of persons who are deaf-blind.

Information obtained by the registry will be used to generate statistical

information that will be used in the following ways:

## 1. It will be shared with adult service programs so they will be better
prepared for serving youths and adults who are deaf-blind.

## 2. It will be shared with teacher and interpreter preparation programs to
prepare professionals to work with this population.

## 3. It will be used for program planning for transition age youth (14-21
years of age) as they transition out of the educational system.

## 4. It will be shared with state and federal governments as they develop
priorities for program funding.

## We invite individuals who are deaf-blind, parents, guardians and
service providers who work with individuals who are deaf-blind of any age to
fill out the enclosed registry form and return it to us. Be assured that all

personal information will be kept in the strictest confidence.

If you have any questions, please contact me at 516-944-8900, ext. 270.

## Sincerely,


## Joseph J. McNulty
## Director


## Enclosure: Registry form










