# im-99-28







# U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATION SERVICES
## REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINSITRATION
# WASHINGTON, D.C. 20202


# INFORMATION MEMORANDUM
# RSA-IM-99-28
## DATE: June 24, 1999


## TO        :    STATE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION AGENCIES (GENERAL)
## STATE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION AGENCIES (BLIND)

# CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
## REGIONAL REHABILITATION CONTINUING EDUCATION
# PROGRAMS
# RSA SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM


## SUBJECT   :    U.S. Postal Service Randolph-Sheppard Initiative

The United States Postal Service (USPS) has initiated a project to increase
the number of Randolph-Sheppard vending facilities on its property. A
workgroup was established through the initiative of the USPS and the
National Federation of the Blind (NFB) to develop and promote the
project. Members of the Rehabilitation Services Administration (RSA),
along with representatives from the National Council of State Agencies for
the Blind (NCSAB) have participated on the Workgroup established to
further this initiative.


## A form has been developed entitled Major Facility Projects, Two-Year
## Projections (copy attached) to inform State agency staff of future
opportunities for the establishment of vending facilities. The information
supplied on this form will be sent to you periodically. The purpose is to
help you in planning to respond to the future needs of the USPS for
vending facility services as new construction and renovations occur.

Although some of the projects in the enclosed listing have not received
final approval, the form provides pertinent information that should assist
agency staff to make the necessary contacts and plans that will promote
the establishment of new vending facilities on USPS property.

If you have questions or comments concerning the project, contact either
## Mr. George Arsnow, Chief, Vending Facility Branch, telephone number:
- (202) 205-9317 or Mr. Joe D. Cordova, Director, Division for the Blind

and Visually Impaired, telephone number: (202) 205-9902.







---
## Page 2









## INQUIRIES TO:  RSA Regional Commissioners


/s/
## Fredric K. Schroeder, Ph.D.
## Commissioner


## Attachment










































