# PAC-89-02_0







## UNITFD STATES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
# OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION
# AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES
## REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
# WASHINGTON, D.C. 20202


# PROGRAM ASSISTANCE CIRCULAR
# RSA-PAC-89-02
1-3-89



## TO:            State Rehabilitation Agencies (General)
## State Rehabilitation Agencies (Blind)
## RSA Regional Commissioners
## RSA Senior Staff


SUBJECT:  Guidelines for Use of Federal Financial Participation and Set-Aside Funds in the
## Randolph-Sheppard Vending Facility Program


## STATUTORY AND REGULATORY CITATIONS:

- (1)  Randolph-Sheppard Act, as amended, 20 USC 107 et seq. and section
103(b)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 USC 723(b).

- (2)  34 CFR 395, Subparts A and B (Randolph-Sheppard) and 34 CFR
361.72 (Rehabilitation Act). Throughout this document, the latter
regulation is referred to as the “VR” (Vocational Rehabilitation)
regulation.

# BACKGROUND:

This Program Assistance Circular (PAC) is a revision of Commissioner’s letter
No. 66–17 which was issued prior to the Randolph-Sheppard amendments of
## 1974. This PAC incorporates changes made by the Amendments, and provides
programmatic explanations and agency practice with respect to the statutory
requirements. It specifically identifies state agency expenditures which can or
cannot be made from set-aside funds under the Randolph-Sheppard Act, and
identifies expenditures which qualify for Federal matching under the
Rehabilitation act. Regulations are often quoted in their entirety in order to
provide a context for the subregulatory guidance.

## The material is organized and five sections:

## 1.   Definition of terms;
## 2.   Set-aside funds;







---
## Page 2




2


## 3.   Federal financial participation for services for groups of severely
handicapped individuals under section 103(b) of the Rehabilitation Act;
## 4.   Expenditures made by the State licensing agency SLA from set-aside
funds which are eligible for Federal matching under the Rehabilitation
## Act;
## 5.   Expenditures made by the SLA from setaside funds which are not
eligible for Federal matching.

# SUPPORTIVE GUIDELINES:

## 1.   Definition of Terms

- a. Vending Facility – “means automatic vending machines, cafeterias,
snack bars, cart service, shelters, counters, and such other appropriate
auxiliary equipment which may be operated by blind licensees and which
is necessary for the sale of newspapers, periodicals, confections, tobacco
products, foods, beverages, and other articles or services dispensed
automatically or manually and prepared on or off the premises in
accordance with all applicable health laws, and including the vending or
exchange of chances for any lottery authorized by State law and
conducted by an agency of a State within such State.” Citation 34 CFR
395.1(x)

## The general categories of Randolph-Sheppard vending facilities are
“dry” or sundry facilities, snack bars which may involve the sale of food
prepared on or off the premises, cafeterias, and automatic vending
machines. Many facilities are a combination of the aforementioned
general categories. In addition to the foregoing, more recently other
business activities such as greeting card shops, gift shops, and “fast
food” facilities have been successfully established under the Randolph-
## Sheppard program.

- b. State Licensing Agency (SLA) – “means the State agency designated
by the Secretary under this part to issue licenses to blind persons for the
operation of vending facilities on Federal and other property.” Citation
## 34 CFR 395.1(v)

- c. Set-aside Funds -- “means funds which accrue to a State licensing
agency from an assessment against the net proceeds of each vending
facility in the State’s vending facility program and any income from
vending machines on Federal property which accrues to the State
licensing agency.” Citation 34 CFR 395.1(s)
- d. Equipment – As used in this PAC, the term “equipment” means “a
vocational rehabilitation service” as defined in the VR regulations at 34
CFR 361.1(c). However, some of the definitional guidance is drawn from
## EDGAR (Education Department Grants Administration Regulations) at
## 34 CFR Part 74. According to current RSA policy, the EDGAR
definition of “equipment” at 34 CFR 74.132, and the rules pertaining








---
## Page 3




3


thereto, apply only to equipment used by the SLA to carry out the
administrative aspects of the rehabilitation program.

- (1)  Equipment –-- means tangible personal property having
a useful life of more than one year. (Typical examples
are such items as coffee urns, grills, refrigerators,
counters, tables, and chairs. Less typical equipment
includes such items as plumbing, woodworking,
electrical material, and shelters.)
## Other charges, such as cost of transportation, temporary
storage, and installation of new equipment may be
included in the unit acquisition cost. Also included
would be the cost of modifications, attachments,
accessories, or auxiliary apparatus necessary to make the
equipment usable for the purpose for which it was
acquired.
- (2)  Replacement of Equipment – means equipment acquired
to take the place of other equipment. To qualify as
replacement equipment, it should serve the same
function as the equipment replaced and should be of
function as the equipment replaced and should be of the
same nature or character, although not necessarily the
same model, grade, or quality.

- (3)  Shelters – to be considered as part of the equipment of
an enterprise, the shelter furnished to house the
undertaking must be one “customarily furnished by the
operator of a like undertaking occupying the premises
under a short-term lease”. Citation 34 CFR 361.72(a)

## This means that the structure should generally be
portable, i.e. easily dismantled and reassembled (when
necessary).

- e. Initial Stock –-- includes all types of merchandise necessary for the
establishment of the new business enterprise. Initial stock should be
interpreted as items purchased for the purpose of marketing to customers.
In a major expansion of a vending facility location or a change in the
nature of the facility (such as changing a dry facility to a vending
machine facility or snack bar) new items not previously carried on the
stock inventory but now considered necessary or desirable for the
location can’t be considered initial stock.
- f. Management Services – “means supervision, inspection, quality
control, consultation, accounting, regulating, in– service training, and
other related services provided on a systematic basis to support and
improve vending facilities operated by blind vendors. ‘Management
services’ does not include those services or costs which pertain to the on-
going operation of an individual facility after the initial establishment
period.” Citation 34 CFR 395.1(j)







---
## Page 4




4



By a policy determination but made by the Assistant Secretary for
## Special Education and Rehabilitative Services on August 23, 1985, this
definition includes the exploration by the SLA of new locations (i.e., site
surveys) and the development of these locations (i.e., negotiations
leading to the finalization of a permit or contract).
Also included in this definition are the SLA activities related to the
selection and operation of the State Committee of Blind Vendors as
determined by the State agency. Citation 34 CFR 395.14

## 2.   Set-Aside Funds

The application for designation submitted by the SLA shall specify the
extent to which funds will be set-aside or caused to be set-aside from the
net proceeds (as defined in section 395.1(k)) of the operation of each
vending facility. Set-aside also includes vending machine income which
accrues to the State licensing agency under section 395.8 (c). See section
395.1 (s) as above.

The application f further provides for the establishment, with the active
participation of the State Committee of Blind Vendors, of a set-aside
funds schedule covering each of the purposes for which set-aside funds
are intended to be used. The set-aside schedule shall be designed to
prevent, so far as is practical, a greater charge for any purpose than is
reasonably required. See 34 CFR 395.3 and 395.9.

## The SLA shall “maintain adequate records to support the reasonableness
of the charge for each purpose including any reserves necessary to assure
that such purposes can be achieved on a consistent basis.” Citation 34
# CFR 395.9

Any change in the set-aside schedule will be submitted to the
Commissioner of RSA for approval prior to being put into effect. Funds
will be set-aside only for the purposes of:

- (a) Maintenance and replacement of equipment;

- (b) The purchase of new equipment;

- (c) Management services;

- (d) Assuring a fair minimum of return to vendors; or
- (e) The establishment and maintenance of retirement or pension funds,
health insurance contributions, and provision for paid sick leave and
vacation time, if it is so determined by a majority vote of blind vendors
licensed by the State licensing agency, after such agency provides to
each such vendor information on all matters relevant to such proposed
purposes.” Citation 34 CFR 395.9








---
## Page 5




5


## 3.   Federal Financial Participation

This portion of the PAC sets forth the SLA expenditures for the
## Randolph-Sheppard Vending Facility Program that are eligible for
## Federal matching.
## Congress has never appropriated funds for either Federal or State
administration of the Randolph-Sheppard Act pursuant to the
authorization language at 20 USC 107f. Rather, funding authority for
expenditures made for the Randolph-Sheppard Vending Facility Program
is found in section 103(b) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 CFR 361.72
of the VR regulations dealing with small business enterprises (including
vending facilities for groups severely handicapped individuals.)

(Note: We note here that under the Randolph-Sheppard Act, the
## Commissioner of RSA must “insure… that uniform and effective
training programs…are provided or blind individuals, though services
under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.” 20 USC 107d-4 and 34 CFR
395.11 (underline added)

## Sec. 361.72 of the VR regulations provides that Federal financial
participation will be available for certain expenditures in the operation of
the Randolph-Sheppard vending facility program. These expenditures
include:

- a. The acquisition of vending facility equipment. The term
“acquisition” has consistently been interpreted by RSA to
include replacement;

- b. Initial stock and supplies for a facility;

- c. Management services and supervision provided by the State
agency to improve the operation of such vending facilities.
## According to our understanding of the definition of
## Management Services and Supervision, set forth on page 4
of the circular, the term include service and initial costs
necessary for establishing and maintaining the vending
facility for not to exceed 6 months, i.e., during the “initial
establishment period” referred to in 34 CFR 395.1(j), set
forth on page 4. Examples of such costs are utilities,
licenses, and occupational fees, advertising and public
liability insurance. As noted earlier, this term has also been
interpreted to include exploration and development costs
incurred by the SLA for the development of new locations.
## See page 4 of this circular.
Where the SLA retains title to initial stocks and supplies for vending
facilities under the program, and a vendor leaves a facility, the SLA is
obligated to pay that vendor or his or heirs the value of usable stock and
supplies above the amount provided him initially. The increase in the
value of stock and supplies over a period of years could be caused by an







---
## Page 6




6


increase in sales of the facility, product lines, or the cost of merchandise.
Since the SLA has continued interest in control of the facility, it also has
an obligation to furnish the incoming vendor suitable initial stock and
supplies in accordance with state rules and regulations. Therefore, the
use of Federal financial participation to cover the increase the value of
initial stocks and supplies would be appropriate. Conversely,
replacement of stock depleted below the original inventory would not be
subject to Federal financial participation.
## Federal financial participation will not be available in SLA expenditures
for:

- a. The purchase of any land, building or construction of such buildings.
This exclusion with respect to buildings does not apply to shelters as
described in the section. See 34 CFR 361.72(a)

- b. Good Will – In the purchase of an existing vending facility, Federal
financial participation is only available in the acquisition of
equipment, initial stocks and supplies. Federal financial participation
would not be available for the purchase of “good will.”

## 4.   Expenditures Made by the State Vending Facility Programs from Set-
## Aside Funds Which are Eligible for Federal Matching

## As noted earlier, SLAs are authorized under the Randolph-Sheppard Act
to set aside funds for the purposes set forth in the statute. Under 34 CFR
361.72(b) such expenditures in turn are considered as expenditures of
## State funds for Federal matching purposes.

However, only three of the purposes for which funds may be set-aside
under the Randolph-Sheppard Act are eligible for Federal financial
participation under the Rehabilitation Act, as amended. These are
purchases of new equipment, the replacement of equipment, and
management services and supervision.

It is also important to emphasize the Federal financial participation is
available in certain types of expenditures for which funds may not be set-
aside under the Randolph-Sheppard Act. These are the purchase of initial
stocks and supplies for vending facilities, and the training of operators as
a rehabilitation service under the Rehabilitation Act as provided under 20
## U.S.C. Sec. 107d-4.

## 5.   Expenditures Made by the SLA from Set-Aside Funds that are not
## Eligible for Federal Matching.
## The following expenditures made from set-aside funds are not eligible
for Federal matching:

- a. Maintenance of equipment. (Note: This was amended in PD
99-05)








---
## Page 7




7


- b. Guaranteeing a fair minimum return to licensed vendors.

- c. The establishment and maintenance of retirement or pension
funds, health insurance contributions and provision for paid
vacation for blind vendors.


## INQUIRIES TO:       RSA REGIONAL COMMISSIONERS



# /S/______________________
## Commissioner of Rehabilitation Services


cc:  Joe Owens, CSAVR





































