# pd-05-01







## UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND
# REHABILITATIVE SERVICES
## REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
# WASHINGTON, DC 20202

# POLICY DIRECTIVE
# RSA-PD-05-01
## DATE: March 8, 2005

## TO          :  STATE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION AGENCIES (GENERAL)
## STATE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION AGENCIES (BLIND)
# CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

## PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY OF INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS
# PROGRAMS
## PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY FOR ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY
# PROGRAMS
## STATEWIDE ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY GRANT PROGRAMS
## REGIONAL REHABILITATION CONTINUING EDUCATION
# PROGRAMS
## CONSUMER ADVOCACY  ORGANIZATIONS
# RSA SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM

## SUBJECT     :  LIQUIDATION OF OBLIGATIONS UNDER RSA’S
# FORMULA GRANTS

## BACKGROUND:    This Policy Directive (PD) supersedes Information Memorandum
01-06, dated October 26, 2000.


## RSA-IM-01-06 is being replaced by this Policy Directive because the
## Department of Education issued a new policy memorandum on January
28, 2005 which supersedes the Rehabilitation Services Administration’s
- (RSA) guidance contained in IM-01-06. The PD also provides procedural
information not contained in the Department’s new policy.

## The Department’s new policy memorandum is attached and referenced in
this PD. It is entitled: Extension of Liquidation Periods and Related
## Accounting Adjustments for Grantees under Department of Education
## State-Administered Programs.

# POLICY
STATEMENT   :  This policy directive sets forth the procedures to be followed in requesting
extensions of time to liquidate grant obligations. This PD is applicable to
the following formula grant programs established under the Rehabilitation
## Act of 1973, as amended:









---
## Page 2







- •    State Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) Services Program -- Section
110;
- •    Client Assistance Program (CAP) -- Section 112;
- •    Protection and Advocacy of Individual Rights Program (PAIR) --
## Section 509;
- •    Supported Employment (SE) Program -- Section 622;
- •    Independent Living (IL) Services Program, Part B -- Section 711;
- •    Independent Living (IL), Part C, Centers for Independent Living
- (CIL) Program -- Section 721, if administered by a State agency
pursuant to Section 7231; and
- •    Independent Living, Chapter 2, Independent Living Services for
## Older Individuals Who are Blind -- Section 752.


This PD is also applicable to the following formula grant programs
established under the Assistive Technology Act of 1998, as amended:

- •    Statewide Assistive Technology Grant Program; and
- •    Protection and Advocacy for Assistive Technology (PAAT)
## Program.

As required by 34 CFR 80.23(b) for governmental recipients and 34 CFR
74.52(a)(iv)2 for nonprofit recipients, the time limit for liquidation of all
obligations under a formula grant, as well as any subgrants awarded
(where authorized) thereunder, is 90 days after the end of the grant’s
funding period, or the termination of the grant.

Grantees of the programs mentioned above that cannot meet the 90-day
liquidation requirement must request an extension in order to liquidate
their obligations past this time limit. The new Department policy allows

each principal operating component (POC) within the Department to
“consider and approve or disapprove late liquidation requests for up to 12
months after the end of the Tydings period (i.e. 9 months after the end of
normal liquidation period) consistent with the principles outlined below.
For late liquidation requests made after that time, only the Chief Financial
Officer (CFO) has the authority to approve or disapprove the request in


1The Rehabilitation Act provides that if State funding for the general operations of CILs
in the State for a preceding fiscal year equals or exceeds the Federal funds allotted under the Part
C program, the State, if it so chooses, may administer the Part C program as a formula grant
program in accordance with Section 723.

## 234 CFR 74.52(a)(iv) requires a grantee subject to Part 74 to submit a final financial
report 90 days after the end of the grant’s funding period. A financial report, however, is not
considered final until all unliquidated obligations are zero. Consequently, in order to comply
with this final report submission requirement, the grantee must liquidate its obligations within 90

days of the close of the grant’s funding period.
2





---
## Page 3







conjunction with the Office of the Deputy Secretary, the Office of the
Under Secretary, and the Office of the General Counsel.” (The Tydings
period is the carryover year.)

## Prior to this new Department policy memorandum, RSA Regional
## Commissioners could approve liquidation extension requests past the one-
year period after the grant year-end.

## The six principles to be used in considering late-liquidation requests
contained in the Department’s policy memorandum are:

- 1. “Federal funds may be used only for obligations that were incurred
during the grant period (including the Tydings period) and only for

allowable costs under the relevant program.”
- 2. “The Department generally will not approve late liquidation
requests or related accounting adjustments that move Federal funds
between programs or subgrantees.”
- 3. “The Department generally will not approve late liquidation
requests or related accounting adjustments that move obligations or
expenditures from State or local accounts to Federal programs, but
the Department may approve late liquidation requests that
reimburse the grantee for payments made initially from non-
## Federal funds for obligations charged to Federal programs.”
- 4. “Liquidation requests generally must be consistent with the
underlying accounting system of the grantee for the period in
question.” (Accounting principles used cannot be changed.)
## 5. Past performance of the grantee will be considered in approving
extension requests (e.g. whether the agency is on high-risk or
whether it is complying with the requirements of the Single Audit

## Act).
- 6. “The Department will consider requests for late liquidation and
related accounting adjustments not specifically addressed by these
principles on a case-by-case basis.”

## The Department policy concludes with the statement: “Before the
## Department approves a late liquidation or related accounting adjustments,
the grantee must submit an attestation signed by a high-ranking,
authorized official as to the accuracy of the information and
representations that form the basis for the request, including, at a
minimum, an attestation that under the proposed late liquidation and/or
accounting adjustments, Federal funds would only be used for obligations
incurred within the periods of availability of those funds and for allowable
purposes. For requests made more than 12 months after the end of the
Tydings period, that authorized official must be the Chief State School
Officer or the state’s Chief Financial Officer (or comparable officials, in

the case of grantees that are not State educational agencies). In

3





---
## Page 4







appropriate circumstances, the Department may require an audit by an
independent auditor or other review of the late liquidations and/or
accounting adjustments as a condition of approval of the grantee’s
request.”

## RSA Procedures

In addition to the Department’s policy requirements, all requests for the
extension of a liquidation period under RSA formula grant programs must
be made in the following manner:

## 1. Requests must be made in writing, signed by the grantee director
and sent to the Regional Commissioner before the grant period

ends.
## 2. Requests must include:
- • the grant number and name of the grant;
- • the reason for the request;
- • the time period of the extension;
- • an assurance that the expenditures were made during the grant
period; and
- • an assurance that the funds are allowable.
## 3. Requests in excess of a year after the grant period must include a
detailed list of the obligations whose liquidations require an
extension.

## 4. For requests of longer than a year after the grant period ends, the
request must be made before June 30 of the extension period to
allow for the time required for processing the requests by the
## Department.

## RSA Central Office will forward requests for extensions, with a
recommended course of action, through the Office of Special Education
and Rehabilitative Services (OSERS) to the CFO. The CFO will approve
or disapprove the request and notify the POC. RSA will notify the grantee
by letter within 30 days of receipt of the request whether the request for an
extension of time to liquidate the obligations has been approved for
extensions of a year or less.

If the Department grants an extension, the grantee must continue to submit
to the RSA Regional Office all required interim Financial Status Reports
for the affected grant (quarterly for the Title I-- State VR Services

Program; annually for all the other formula grants). However, after all
obligations have been liquidated, the final report will cover the period
from the last interim report through the end date of the extension period.
The final report will be due thirty days after the close of the extension
period.


4





---
## Page 5







# CITATIONS
IN LAW      :  Sections 19, 108, 110, 112, and 509; Title VI, Part B and Title VII of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Section 4 and 5 of the Assistive
## Technology Act of 1998, as amended.

# CITATIONS IN
## REGULATIONS :  34 CFR 74.52(a)(iv) and 80.23(b)

# RELATED POLICY
# ISSUANCES   :  PD-01-01


## INQUIRIES   :  RSA Regional Commissioners





/s/
## Troy R. Justesen, Ed.D
## Acting Commissioner


cc:  Council of State Administrators of Vocational Rehabilitation
## National Association of Protection and Advocacy Systems

## Attachment























5


