# pd-99-05







## UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND
# REHABILITATIVE SERVICES
## REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
# WASHINGTON, DC 20202


# POLICY DIRECTIVE
# RSA-PD-99-05
# RSM-3015
## Date: March 19, 1999



## ADDRESSEES:    STATE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION AGENCIES (GENERAL)
## STATE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION AGENCIES (BLIND)
# CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
## REGIONAL REHABILITATION CONTINUING EDUCATION
# PROGRAMS (RRCEPS)
# RSA SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM

SUBJECT:       The Use of Title I Funds for the Maintenance and Repair of Equipment
## Under the Randolph-Sheppard Act

# POLICY
STATEMENT:     The question has arisen concerning the use by State licensing agencies of
Title I funds under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (the
## Rehabilitation Act), for the maintenance and repair of equipment in
vending facilities operated under the Randolph-Sheppard Act (the R-S
## Act).


We are unaware of any prohibition concerning the use of Title I funds for
maintenance and repair of equipment, either in the Rehabilitation Act or
the R-S Act. In the absence of such a prohibition, there is authority in
## Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-87, "Cost Principles
for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments," which allows for the use
of Federal financial partici- pation for the maintenance of equipment and
repairs. Specifically, section 28 of the OMB Circular states:

Unless prohibited by law, the cost of . . . necessary maintenance,
normal repairs and alterations, and the like are allowable to the
extent that they: (1) keep property (including Federal property,
unless other-wise provided for) in an efficient operating condition,
- (2) do not add to the permanent value of property or appreciably
prolong its intended life, and (3) are not otherwise included in
rental or other charges for space. Costs which add to the









---
## Page 2







permanent value of property or appreciably prolong its intended
life shall be treated as capital expenditures.

## On the basis of the foregoing, the Rehabilitation Services Administration
finds that Title I funds are available for the maintenance and repair of
vending facility equipment under the R-S Act. All prior policy statements
on this issue -- including Program Assistance Circular, RSA-PAC-89-02,
dated January 3, 1989, "Guidelines for Use of Federal Financial
## Participation and Set-Aside Funds in the Randolph-Sheppard Vending
## Facility Program" and the reporting instructions for the form RSA-15,
Report of Vending Facility Program -- are hereby amended consistent with
this interpretation.


If you have questions, the person on my staff to contact is Mr. George
## Arsnow, Chief, Vending Facility Branch at 202-205-9317.

## INQUIRIES TO:  RSA REGIONAL COMMISSIONERS




## Fredric K. Schroeder
## Commissioner, RSA

























2



