# TAC-25-01







## UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES
## REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
# WASHINGTON, DC 20202-2800

# TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CIRCULAR
# RSA-TAC-25-01
## DATE: January 16, 2025

## ADDRESSEES:    STATE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION AGENCIES
# STATE REHABILITATION COUNCILS
# CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
# STATE LICENSING AGENCIES

# TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CENTERS

SUBJECT:       Allowable Use of Funds for Management Services for the Benefit of the
## Randolph-Sheppard Vending Facility Program

# PURPOSE:

This Technical Assistance Circular (TAC) provides guidance on the allowable use of State
Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) Services program funds, both Federal funds and non-Federal
matching funds (hereinafter VR program funds), as well as Randolph-Sheppard Vending Facility
Program (RSVFP) set-aside funds1, for costs associated with management services and
supervision (hereinafter, “management services”).2 Through this guidance, the Rehabilitation
Services Administration (RSA) provides examples of the nexus between the requirements of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Rehabilitation Act) 3 and the Randolph-Sheppard Act (R-S Act) 4
with respect to the allowable use of funds for management services.


This TAC responds to inquiries received by RSA from State licensing agencies (SLAs)5, RSVFP
vendors, and professional associations on behalf of RSVFP vendors regarding the use of VR

1 “Set-aside funds” is defined at 34 C.F.R. § 395.1(s) as funds which accrue to an SLA from an assessment
against the net proceeds of each vending facility in the RSVFP and any income from vending machines on
federal property which accrues to the SLA.
## 2 For purposes of the VR program at 34 C.F.R. § 361.49(a)(5)(i), the term used is “management services and
supervision;” however, the same activity under the RSVFP is identified at 34 C.F.R. §§ 395.1(j) and 395.9(b)(3)
as “management services.” For the convenience of the reader, this TAC refers to these activities as
“management services” throughout, regardless of the funds used to pay the costs. See also footnote 9.
3 29 U.S.C. § 723(b)(1).
4 20 U.S.C. § 107(b)(3)(C).
## 5 An SLA, as defined in 34 C.F.R. § 395.1(v), is the VR agency providing VR services to individuals who are
blind in the State under the VR services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan (see 34 C.F.R. §§ 395.2
and 395.5) and that has been designated by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Education to issue licenses
to individuals who are blind under the RSVFP. Therefore, when providing VR services for the benefit of
licensed blind vendors operating vending facilities under the RSVFP, there is a close administrative nexus
between the State VR agency and the SLA. Although the VR agency is solely responsible for administering the
VR program and the costs incurred under that program (34 C.F.R. § 361.13(c)) and the SLA is responsible for

1




---
## Page 2







program funds and RSVFP set-aside funds to support and improve the RSVFP through the
provision of management services. Through this TAC, RSA clarifies the applicability of pertinent
Federal requirements governing the use of VR program funds and RSVFP set-aside funds for the
provision of management services, thereby supporting VR agencies and SLAs in the appropriate
use of those funds to increase opportunities for individuals who are blind to obtain and maintain
competitive integrated employment and economic self-sufficiency in the RSVFP. This TAC is the
final in a three-part series requested by SLAs and the RSVFP vending community. The content
of this TAC, along with the other two TACs in this series6 issued previously, together supersede
and rescind PAC-89-02, dated January 3, 1989.

# BACKGROUND:

## Section 103(b)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.49(a)(5) allow VR agencies, in

pertinent part, to use VR program funds to provide management services for licensed blind
vendors operating vending facilities under the RSVFP and supervised by the State agency.
Similarly, the R-S Act at 20 U.S.C.§107b(3)(C) and 34 C.F.R. § 395.9(b)(3), in pertinent part,
allow SLAs to use RSVFP set-aside funds for the provision of management services for licensed
blind vendors operating vending facilities under the RSVFP.

# TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:

For purposes of the RSVFP and this TAC, “management services” include inspection, quality
control, consultation, accounting, regulating, in-service training, and related services provided on
a systematic7 basis to support and improve small business enterprises8 operated by individuals
with significant disabilities (34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395.1(j)).9 Management services

administering the RSVFP (34 C.F.R. § 395.3) and the costs incurred with RSVFP set-aside funds, this TAC uses
“VR agency” and “SLA” interchangeably throughout, depending on which term best fits the specific content of
that reference.
## 6 RSA-TAC-24-03, Use of VR Program Funds for Initial Stocks and Supplies and Operating Expenses for
Vendors Under the Randolph-Sheppard Vending Facilities Program, issued on April 5, 2024, and RSA-TAC-
24-06, Allowable Costs for Vending Facilities and Equipment for Vendors Under the Randolph-Sheppard
## Vending Facility Program, dated August 13, 2024.
## 7 According to the Merriam-Webster Dictionary, “systematic” means 1) relating to or consisting of a system;
2) presented or formulated as a coherent body of ideas or principles, e.g. systematic thought; 3a) methodical in
procedure or plan, e.g. a systematic approach or a systematic scholar; 3b) marked by thoroughness and
regularity, e.g. systematic efforts; 4) of, relating to, or concerned with classification. Systematic, Merriam-
## Webster.com, last visited Nov. 4, 2024).
## 8 The VR regulations at 34 C.F.R. § 361.49(a)(5) refer to “small business enterprises” operated by individuals
with significant disabilities under the supervision of the State agency. For purposes of this TAC, these small
business enterprises are “vending facilities,” as defined at 34 C.F.R. § 395.1(x), operated by licensed blind
vendors under the RSVFP. In the event a State VR agency administers another Business Enterprise Program,
the technical assistance provided in this TAC does not apply to that program; the State should request further
specific technical assistance from RSA as needed.
9 “Management services and supervision” under the VR program’s VR services to groups at 34 C.F.R. §
361.49(a)(5)(i) includes “inspection, quality control, consultation, accounting, regulating, in-service training,
and related services provided on a systematic basis to support and improve small business enterprises operated
by individuals with significant disabilities. Management services and supervision may be provided throughout
the operation of the small business enterprise.” The same activity under the RSVFP is identified at 34 C.F.R. §
395.9(b)(3) and defined at § 395.1(j) as “management services,” which means “supervision, inspection, quality
2




---
## Page 3







may be provided throughout the operation of the vending facility; this is true under both the VR
program and the RSVFP (34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and 34 C.F.R. § 395.9(b)(3)). Therefore,
no time limit exists for the provision of these services.

This means the VR agency may use VR program funds and RSVFP set-aside funds to pay for the
ongoing activities identified as “management services” as provided by the SLA on a systematic
basis to support and improve the vending facilities operated by licensed blind vendors under the
RSVFP. To be clear, “management services” are separate and distinct from the ongoing
operational costs of vending facilities, commonly considered business operating expenses, the
costs of which are allowable under the VR program only during the initial establishment period
of that facility, not to exceed six months (34 C.F.R. § 361.49(a)(5)(iii)); there is no authority
under 34 C.F.R. § 395.9(b) to use set-aside funds to pay ongoing operational costs of a vending
facility.10 The activities described in “management services” at 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and

395.1(j) clearly indicate they consist of administrative (as opposed to business operational)
activities provided on a systematic basis and are not tailored for the benefit of an individual
vending facility or vendor, but rather to support and improve all facilities and vendors (or a
group of those facilities and vendors) in the RSVFP.

When the SLA provides these administrative activities on a systematic basis, they constitute
“management services;” as such, they are methodical in procedure or plan or marked by
thoroughness and regularity, to support and improve the operation of the RSVFP vending
facilities. As the examples below show, the systematic nature of management services does not
necessarily mean the SLA must provide the service to every vendor in the State; the SLA may
provide a particular type of management service to a certain subset of vendors (e.g., new vendors
or all micro market vendors) in the State, as appropriate, and it would still be considered as
“provided on a systematic basis,” as required by 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395.1(j), if the
SLA provides it in a methodical or standardized manner to all vendors receiving the service.

Because “management services” are administrative in nature, they encompass the SLA personnel

costs in the scenarios presented below when associated with administering the RSVFP.
Therefore, although the R-S Act does not specifically authorize the use of RSVFP set-aside funds
for administrative costs, per se, as is permitted with VR program funds in accordance with


control, consultation, accounting, regulating, in-service training, and other related services provided on a
systematic basis to support and improve vending facilities operated by blind vendors. Management services
does not include those services or costs which pertain to the on-going operation of an individual facility after
the initial establishment period.” The RSVFP regulatory definition is almost identical to the description of
“management services and supervision” under the VR program, and we view management services under both
programs as substantively the same and complementary to each other. Under both the RSVFP and VR program,
management services can be provided throughout the duration of the vending facility and management services
does not include on-going operational costs of the vending facility. The RSVFP definition makes this clear by
distinguishing “management services” permitted under the RSVFP with set-aside funds at 34 C.F.R. §
395.9(b)(3) and the operating costs of a vending facility, which are not authorized to be paid with RSVFP set-
aside funds under 34 C.F.R. § 395.9(b) but are permitted with VR program funds under the VR program at 34
C.F.R. § 361.49(a)(5)(iii) for the initial establishment period, not to exceed six months. See also footnote #2.
## 10. For more detailed guidance on initial operating costs of a vending facility, see RSA-TAC-24-03, Use of VR
Program Funds for Initial Stocks and Supplies and Operating Expenses for Vendors Under the Randolph-
## Sheppard Vending Facilities Program, issued on April 5, 2024.
3




---
## Page 4







## Section 111(a)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.3(b),11 such specific reference in
the R-S Act is unnecessary because the SLA personnel time to manage the RSVFP clearly falls
within the scope of “management services” as one of the identified activities or “other related
services provided on a systematic basis to support and improve” vending facilities operated by
licensed blind vendors (34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395(1)(j)). For example, “management
services” can include costs for SLA personnel time to negotiate vending facility permits and
contracts; procure equipment, services, and goods needed by the RSVFP vendors; manage any
RSVFP-established systems for ensuring the payment of fair minimum return, sick and vacation
pay, and pension funds; and manage the RSVFP set-aside assessments paid to the SLA. Although
these personnel time costs associated with administering the RSVFP are allowable management
services, it is important for SLAs to determine the underlying RSVFP activities performed to
ensure the proper allocation of costs between VR program funds and RSVFP set-aside funds.


If the underlying activity is only allowable under the VR program (e.g. initial operating costs),
then management services associated with that activity can only be paid with VR program funds.
Similarly, if the underlying activity is only allowable under the RSVFP (e.g. fair minimum
return), then management services associated with that activity can only be paid with RSVFP set-
aside funds. However, if the underlying activity is allowable under both the VR program and the
RSVFP (e.g. the purchase and maintenance of equipment), then management services associated
with that activity can be paid from either funding source. Payment with set-aside funds of
management services to administer the RSVFP set-aside activities must be consistent with the
SLA’s policies and procedures developed in active participation with the Elected Committee of
Blind Vendors (Elected Committee)12 and approved by RSA (34 C.F.R. §§ 395.4 and 395.14).

Before expending funds for the provision of management services to administer either allowable
VR expenditures to benefit the RSVFP or set-aside expenditures, regardless of whether paying
with VR program funds or RSVFP set-aside funds, State agencies must ensure the costs are
allowable, reasonable, necessary, and allocable to the applicable program in accordance with
Federal cost principles at 2 C.F.R. §§ 200.403 through 200.405. As VR agencies and SLAs plan

for the expenditure of funds – VR program funds and RSVFP set-aside funds -- it is important to
remember that neither Section 103(b)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act nor the R-S Act (20 U.S.C. §
107b(3)) requires agencies to expend funds on the provision of management services. Rather, the
Rehabilitation Act and the R-S Act authorize State agencies to expend funds, as allowable, for
these purposes.




## 11 Section 111(a)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.3 authorize States to use VR program funds for
providing VR services, which include those activities paid for the benefit of the RSVFP under section 103(b)(1)
of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.49(a)(5), and for administering the VR program. For purposes of
the VR program, the term “administrative costs” is defined at section 7(1) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34
C.F.R. § 361.5(c)(2); however, the SLA personnel time described in this TAC constitutes “management
services” because the personnel are managing or supervising activities in the administration of the RSVFP.
Therefore, the definition of “administrative costs” for purposes of the VR program is not applicable to this
personnel time.
12 34 C.F.R. § 395.14 and RSA-TAC 21-01: Active Participation of Elected Committees of Blind Vendors with
State Licensing Agencies in the Randolph-Sheppard Vending Facility Program (December 15, 2020).

4




---
## Page 5







The State agency may use non-Federal funds to pay allowable costs under the VR program,
including expenses associated with management services for the benefit of the RSVFP, instead of
Federal VR funds. Any non-Federal funds used to pay these allowable VR program costs,
including RSVFP set-aside funds, count toward the State’s match and maintenance of effort
- (MOE) requirements; therefore, VR agencies must report these amounts as non-Federal share on
the Vocational Rehabilitation Financial Report (RSA-17), as required by 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.60 and
361.62. SLAs also must report the use of these funds on the Report of Vending Facility Program
(RSA-15). Furthermore, expenditures made with RSVFP set-aside funds that are also allowable
under the VR program must satisfy all Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance (Uniform
Guidance) requirements for purposes of the VR program, particularly those governing Federal
cost principles when expending funds and requesting prior written approval for certain
expenditures. This is necessary because these expenditures paid with RSVFP set-aside funds,
which are also allowable under the VR program, count towards the State’s MOE requirement

under the VR program since they constitute part of the total amount of non-Federal expenditures
incurred under that program in accordance with section 111(a)(2)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act
and 34 C.F.R. § 361.62(a).

## Examples:

The following illustrative examples provide specific factual scenarios to help clarify when the
State agency may use VR program funds and RSVFP set-aside funds to pay for management
services under the RSVFP. Because the examples provided herein are general and cannot cover
every factual circumstance that could arise, they do not automatically determine the outcome for
any other specific factual scenario. SLAs should engage in their own analysis of their individual
factual circumstances to determine whether an activity is a management service. Before
spending VR or RSVFP set-aside funds on management services, we urge VR agencies and
SLAs to consult with both the RSA Financial Management Specialist and RSA RSVFP
Liaison assigned to their State to obtain specific technical assistance regarding the
allowability of particular costs or the development of policies, procedures, or internal

controls based on the examples in this TAC. In this way, RSA can ensure a holistic approach to
the technical assistance provided for the specific circumstances arising in the State.

## 1. The SLA contracts with ABC Corp. to provide the following management services on behalf
of all vending facilities in the State:
- •  Preparing and generating data for various reports on behalf of the SLA, including the
## Federal RSA-15 report;
- •  Providing quarterly in-service trainings to vendors to support and improve the operation
of their vending facilities under the RSVFP (e.g., trainings on cash management,
inventory management, and business management); and
- •  Providing replacement staff when vendors attend quarterly in-service trainings.

All the above activities under the contract support and improve the licensed blind vendors’

operation of vending facilities under the RSVFP; the contract requires the contractor to
provide all services according to State policies and procedures. Therefore, for the reasons set
forth below, the entire contract in this example represents allowable management services
costs, including the SLA personnel time to manage the contract. As such, the SLA may pay


5




---
## Page 6







the entire contract cost as management services with either VR program funds or RSVFP set-
aside funds. In addition, no time limit exists for the provision of these services.

With respect to the activities under the contract related to the generation of data for Federal
reporting purposes, these administrative services constitute those activities identified at both
## 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395.1(j) as “management services” because they involve
accounting, consultation, and other related services provided for the support of licensed blind
vendors operating vending facilities under the RSVFP. Second, the State provides these
administrative services on a systematic basis to support and improve the vending facilities
operated by licensed blind vendors under the RSVFP. The State provides these activities, not
for the benefit of any individual vending facility, but rather in a methodical manner on behalf
of all facilities to support and improve the RSVFP (i.e., on a systematic basis).


With respect to the quarterly in-service trainings and replacement staff costs when vendors
attend those trainings, both 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395.1(j) describe “management
services” as including “in-service trainings” that support and improve the vending facilities
operated by licensed blind vendors under the RSVFP. Because the vendors attend trainings
necessary to support and improve the operations of their vending facilities (e.g., to improve
their skills on cash management, inventory management, and business management), the
SLA may use both VR program funds, and RSVFP set-aside funds to pay for the training
costs as “management services.” This would be true regardless of whether the contractor
provides the in-service trainings at the vendor’s own vending facility or offsite at a different
location.

Although the description of “management services” at 34 C.F.R. § 361.49(a)(5)(i) and
395.1(j) does not specifically mention replacement staff costs when a vendor attends an in-
service training (but in-service training is specifically mentioned as “management services”),
those replacement staff costs may be allowable as “management services” if they satisfy the
Federal cost principles at 2 C.F.R. §§ 200.403 through 200.405. The allowability of these

costs will depend on the applicable facts for each vending facility in the State. Pursuant to 2
C.F.R. § 200.403(a), except as specifically authorized under law, a cost is allowable if it is
reasonable and necessary for the performance of the Federal award and allocable to that
award. The allowability of replacement staff costs will depend on the specific facts presented,
such as whether the vendor already maintains additional staff. For example, a prudent person
could determine at the time of incurring costs that a vending facility managed by a sole
proprietor reasonably requires replacement staff to avoid closing for the day, making the cost
for replacement staff reasonable and allowable under the Federal cost principles at 2 C.F.R.
§§ 200.403 through 200.405. However, a vending facility with other staff members may not
require replacement staff to avoid closure of the facility while the vendor participates in the
in-service training.

It is likely the SLA would need to assign State agency personnel to manage the contract.
Because the personnel in this example would be performing management services for a
contract that includes RSVFP activities that are allowable under both the VR program and
RSVFP, this personnel time also is allowable under both the VR program and RSVFP.




6




---
## Page 7







For the foregoing reasons, each of the above activities in this particular factual scenario
would constitute allowable management services. As allowable costs, the SLA may use either
VR program funds or RSVFP set-aside funds to pay these costs. To the extent the State uses
non-Federal funds to pay any of these management services costs, including RSVFP set-aside
funds, the State may count these expenditures toward satisfying its match requirement, if
necessary, but all such expenditures must count toward the State’s MOE requirement because
the expenditures are part of the total non-Federal expenditures incurred under the VR
program, as required for the calculation of MOE according to Section 111(a)(2)(B) of the
## Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.62(a).

## 2. The SLA amends the contract with ABC Corp. to provide in-service trainings to all licensed

blind vendors in the State regarding “the relationship between work and the receipt of Social
Security Administration (SSA) benefits.” Specifically, the training focuses on the amount of
income the vendor can earn and still satisfy SSA eligibility requirements.

Unlike the in-service trainings described in Example 1 above during which the vendors
learned about cash management, inventory management, and business management, the SSA
training in Example 2 does not support and improve the operation of the RSVFP. Rather, this
training focuses on the personal income needs of each vendor who attends; the knowledge
the vendors gain at the training will not support and improve the vending facilities operated
under the RSVFP. For this reason, the in-service trainings described in Example 2 do not
constitute management services, as described at 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395.1(j);
therefore, States may not use either VR program funds or RSVFP set-aside funds to pay for
any of the associated costs with these trainings, including the personnel time to manage that
portion of the contract directly related to these SSA trainings since the underlying cost of the
training is not allowable under either the VR program or RSVFP. In other words, the SLA
must cost allocate the costs associated with these SSA trainings, as well as the personnel time
to manage that portion of the contract and pay those costs with another source of funds
available to it for this purpose; these expenditures do not count towards the State’s match or
MOE  requirements under the VR program since the costs are not allowable under that
program.


## 3. The SLA recently acquired two new vending facilities in the State and assigned Vendor A and
Vendor B to those new facilities. The SLA agreed to pay the following ongoing operational
costs for Vendor A and Vendor B:

- •  Fiscal, accounting, and related support services to the new vendors, which include
generating monthly settlement reports, processing cash receipts (turn-ins and
commissions), vendor staff payroll, accounts payable, monthly draw (advances drawn
from vendor monthly settlement disbursements), monthly sales tax, payroll tax deposits,
monthly and annual tax reports (including 1099's and W-2s), reconciliation of Asset and
Liability accounts, reconciliation of bank statements, and preparing annual budgets;
- •  Ongoing vendor dues to professional organizations;
- •  Internet service fees for each of the new vending facilities; and
- •  Vendor’s unemployment insurance for their employees.




7




---
## Page 8







Although the SLA provides each of these services on behalf of both Vendor A and Vendor B
– the only new RSVFP vendors in the State, the accounting services pertain specifically to
Vendor A’s and Vendor B’s vending facilities. Each of the accounting services offered are
tailored to meet their individual operational needs – not systematically (i.e., not provided
methodically and generally to support and improve their businesses as part of a larger system
within the RSVFP). For example, with respect to the fiscal accounting services provided by
the SLA to Vendor A and Vendor B, the SLA assists both vendors to reconcile their
individual bank statements or asset and liability accounts. The SLA also processes 1099s and
W-2 forms for each of the vendors and their employees, submits monthly sales tax forms,
and makes payroll tax deposits on behalf of their individual vending facilities. Because the
fiscal and accounting services in this example benefit the individual needs of Vendor A and
Vendor B, these services constitute operational costs of the vending facility (i.e., business
expenses for the vendors), not “management services” as described at 34 C.F.R. §

361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395.1(j).

Similarly, costs incurred for professional dues, internet service fees, and unemployment
insurance for their employees benefit only the individual needs of Vendor A and Vendor B
and their respective vending facilities. These expenditures do not help to support and
improve the operation of the vending facility systematically (i.e., methodically as part of the
RSVFP system); rather, they are ongoing operational costs typically incurred by the vendor
in operating a vending facility. As such, these costs do not constitute “management services,”
but instead ongoing operational costs of Vendor A’s and Vendor B’s vending facilities. Even
if the SLA wanted to pay for any of these costs for all vending facilities operated under the
RSVFP in the State, these specific expenditures used in this example still would represent
ongoing operating costs of the vendors and their individual vending facilities, not
management services incurred by the SLA on a systematic basis to support and improve the
operation of the RSVFP.

Under the VR program, the SLA may use VR program funds to pay the costs of operating

expenses incurred during the initial establishment of the vending facility not to exceed six
months; however, States may not use VR program funds to pay for these costs beyond the
initial establishment period (34 C.F.R. § 361.49(a)(5)(iii)). VR program payment of
allowable initial operating costs assists licensed blind vendors by paying for those on-going
costs necessary to start up a vending facility when the vendor may have little to no income to
cover these costs and while the vendor is learning how to meet their operational needs. Such
expenditures fit squarely within the purpose of the VR program, which assists individuals
with disabilities, including those with significant disabilities, to achieve employment
outcomes and economic self-sufficiency (Section 100(a)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act). The
VR program’s financial support for the initial establishment period of any vending facility,
not to exceed six months, increases the likelihood that blind vendors become and remain
economically self-sufficient in competitive integrated employment.

However, as explained in RSA-TAC-24-03, the R-S Act and 34 C.F.R. part 395 do not
authorize SLAs to use RSVFP set-aside funds to pay for ongoing operational costs – even
during the initial establishment period of a facility – because the definition of “management

services” at 34 C.F.R. § 395.1(j) specifically excludes ongoing operational costs from that


8




---
## Page 9







definition. Moreover, 34 C.F.R. § 395.9(b) does not authorize the use of RSVFP set-aside
funds for this purpose.

Even though none of these services provided by the SLA to Vendor A and Vendor B
constitute “management services,” they constitute initial operating costs under the VR
program, which are allowable with VR program funds for Vendor A and Vendor B during
the initial establishment period of their vending facilities, not to exceed six months, in
accordance with 34 C.F.R. § 361.49(a)(5)(iii). Therefore, any SLA personnel time to manage
these expenditures during that initial establishment period is also allowable as management
services under the VR program only; the personnel time is not allowable as management
services with RSVFP set-aside funds because the underlying cost (i.e., initial operating costs)
are not allowable with RSVFP set-aside funds. As stated above, initial operating costs can
only be paid with VR program funds, meaning the same is true with the associated personnel

time to manage those expenditures. At the end of the initial establishment period, Vendor A
and Vendor B must pay these ongoing operational costs from the proceeds of their vending
facilities, and the SLA personnel time (i.e., management services) would cease at that time
for these particular activities. To be clear, the SLA may not use RSVFP set-aside funds to
pay any of these costs at any time.

## 4. The SLA contracts with AAA Corp. to manage health insurance, pension fund, and a system
for paying out vacation and sick leave for vendors. All RSVFP vendors in the State benefit
from these services managed by AAA Corp.

It is important to note that the health insurance, pension fund, and sick and vacation
payments managed by AAA Corp. do not constitute “management services;” rather, any
payments made for these purposes constitute allowable RSVFP costs pursuant to 34 C.F.R. §
395.9(b)(5). Therefore, RSVFP set-aside funds may be used to make these payments.
However, none of these payments are allowable under the VR program; thus, VR program
funds may not be used to make any of these payments, and the RSVFP set-aside payments
made pursuant to 34 C.F.R. § 395.9(b)(5) do not count towards the State’s match and MOE
requirements under the VR program since the costs are not allowable under that program.


With respect to the SLA personnel time to oversee the AAA Corp. contract described in
Example 4, this personnel expenditure represents supervisory (i.e., administrative) activity
provided on a systematic basis for the benefit of the RSVFP. As such, this SLA personnel
time constitutes “management services.” However, as noted above, the AAA Corp. contract
activities supervised by the SLA personnel in Example 4 are only allowable under the
RSVFP and not the VR program. For this reason, the supervisory (i.e., administrative)
activities performed by the SLA personnel to manage this contract are only allowable under
the RSVFP, meaning they constitute “management services” only under the RSVFP since the
underlying activity is only allowable under the RSVFP and not the VR program; therefore,
these personnel time costs (i.e., management services expenditures) can be paid with RSVFP
set-aside funds. Because the underlying contract activities performed by AAA Corp. in
Example 4 are not allowable under the VR program at all, the SLA personnel time to
supervise the contract also is not allowable under that program, meaning the agency may not
use VR program funds to pay these costs.



9




---
## Page 10







With a contract such as that described in Example 4, RSVFP set-aside funds or other funds
available to the SLA for this purpose are the only sources of funds allowable; VR program
funds are not allowable for any costs associated with this contract. As always, the SLA must
ensure all payments made with RSVFP set-aside funds are consistent with the State’s policies
and procedures developed with the active participation of the Elected Committee and
approved by RSA.

## 5. An SLA assigns one staff person to supervise the State’s RSVFP. This State, in active
participation with the Elected Committee, has established programs for sick and vacation
time and a pension fund. This staff person is responsible for overseeing these payments to the
four licensed blind vendors in the State (10 percent of their time). The staff person also is
responsible for negotiating contracts and permits on behalf of the RSVFP (15 percent of their
time), looking for new vending facility opportunities to expand the RSVFP in the State (10

percent of their time), arranging and providing in-service trainings for the vendors (50
percent of their time), and inventorying the RSVFP equipment (10 percent of their time), as
well as other related duties provided on a systematic basis to benefit the RSVFP (5 percent of
their time).

It is important to note that the SLA personnel’s time supports and improves the operation of
the entire RSVFP in the State through activities done methodically, not just the individual
operations of each vending facility or licensed blind vendor. Similar to the SLA activities in
Example 4 above, Example 5 highlights a particular activity that the SLA personnel is
supervising (i.e., administering) that is only allowable under the RSVFP and not the VR
program, namely the payments made pursuant to 34 C.F.R. § 395.9(b)(5) for sick and
vacation pay and pensions. Because the underlying costs are allowable only under the
RSVFP and not the VR program, the SLA may use RSVFP set-aside funds to pay the
management services cost associated with the SLA personnel’s time for managing those
specific activities (i.e., 10 percent). The State agency cannot use VR program funds to pay
these costs, and these particular personnel costs (i.e., 10 percent of the staff person’s time)

cannot count towards the State’s match and MOE requirements under the VR program
because they are not allowable under that program.

With respect to the remaining 90 percent of the SLA personnel’s time spent supervising (i.e.,
administering) the RSVFP in this State, all activities identified are allowable under both the
VR program and RSVFP as management services. Therefore, the SLA may use either VR
program funds or RSVFP set-aside funds (or some combination of the two funding sources)
to pay 90 percent of this staff person’s time for supervising the RSVFP. All non-Federal
expenditures spent for this 90 percent of the SLA personnel’s time, including RSVFP set-
aside funds, count towards the State’s match and MOE requirements. To be clear, the SLA
must cost allocate the staff person’s time to ensure, for reporting and accounting purposes,
the 10 percent for costs not allowable under the VR program is not paid by VR funds.
However, since the remaining 90 percent of the costs are allowable under the VR program,
when paid by RSVFP set-aside funds or other funds available for this purpose, they are
subject to the State’s match and MOE requirements under the VR program.





10




---
## Page 11







## 6. The SLA contracts with BBB Corp. to develop and manage a new financial and data
management system that is available to all vending facilities in the State. The vendors will
use the system to do their own monthly financial accounting and submit monthly reports to
the SLA, who, in turn, will use the information when completing the annual RSA-15 report
for RSA. The vendors pay BBB Corp. a monthly fee for the use of the system.

Developing a systematic financial and data management system under these facts constitutes
a “management service” under both the VR program and RSVFP at 34 C.F.R. §§
361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395.1(j). In this case, the financial and data management system supports
and improves the operation of the entire vending facility program in the State, not just the
individual operations of each vending facility. Although the financial and data management
system may also serve individual needs for each vending facility, such as their own financial

record keeping and accounting, the primary purpose of the system is to provide a statewide
mechanism through which the vendors input and transmit monthly profit and other data
needed by the SLA for its own reporting and record-keeping purposes required by the RSA-
15.

Because the development of the financial and data management system in this example
constitutes a “management service,” the SLA may use VR program funds and RSVFP set-
aside funds to pay these costs, as well as any SLA personnel time to manage this contract,
receive vendors’ data, and then submit RSA-15 reports. These expenditures are allowable
under both the VR program and the RSVFP, meaning that all non-Federal expenditures count
toward the State’s match and MOE requirements under the VR program.

The development of the financial and data management system for use by the vendors for
their own operational needs and the use of the system by the SLA to obtain the data
necessary to submit the RSA-15 reports to RSA, including SLA personnel time associated
with managing the BBB Corp. contract, constitute management services under both the VR

program and RSVFP. As such, these costs may be paid with either VR program funds or
RSVFP set-aside funds, or a combination of the two sources. While the vendors use the
financial and data management system for their own operational needs - accounting and data
management purposes, such as to maintain sales reports, complete 1099s, and submit sales
tax reports – they pay a monthly fee to use this system directly to BBB Corp. The SLA is not
involved in the vendors’ operational functions.

To be clear, the financial and data management system in Example 6 (the establishment and
management of which is allowable as “management services”) differs from a statewide
accounting system required by some States for the vending facilities to use. In those States,
the State requires the licensed blind vendors to use the State’s accounting system to input all
fiscal data on a regular basis; the State’s accounting system, in turn, generates sales tax
reports, Federal 1099 reports, and other reports on behalf of each vendor. In these States, the
SLA also uses the State’s accounting system to send monthly checks to the vendors, rather
than having the vendors determine their own profits. Although “management services”
includes accounting services, those must be done methodically – systematically – to support

and improve the operation of the vending facilities in the RSVFP. These State accounting
services just described, on the other hand, are tailored specifically for the individual


11




---
## Page 12







operational needs of each vendor and each vending facility; most of the activities focus on
the particular profits and losses experienced by each facility (see also Example 3 above) and
result in the SLA performing the operational functions of the vending facility. As such, these
accounting services represent ongoing operational costs that each vendor needs to incur for
the life of the vending facility. The SLA could pay these initial operational costs (and any
associated administrative costs) with VR program funds for the initial establishment period
of a vending facility, not to exceed six months. After that initial establishment period ends,
however, the vendor must pay for the costs. As operational costs, the SLA cannot use RSVFP
set-aside funds to pay any of these costs.

## 7. A teaming partner on an SLA cafeteria contract with a Federal agency has brought a case in
the Court of Federal Claims against the Federal agency. The SLA wants to intervene and
participate in the matter to protect the interests of the RSVFP in maintaining the contract and

support the interest of the licensed blind vendor against the teaming partner. The SLA hires
an attorney with subject matter expertise to advise on this highly specialized issue.

In this example where the claim is outside the RSVFP arbitration process, the attorney’s
representation focuses on the facts of one vendor and their vending facility, but the outcome
of the matter could impact the SLA’s administration of the RSVFP and other vendors in the
State and their vending facilities. In addition, if the cafeteria contract is lost, it could affect
the amount of funds that the SLA receives from set-aside assessments and thus, the available
amount of set-aside funds that supports the RSVFP. For these reasons, the attorney’s
representation protects the vending facility operations in the State by supporting the interests
of the RSVFP and the licensed blind vendors in the State. The SLA’s hiring of the attorney in
this matter is systematic, as required by both 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395.1(j),
because the resolution of the issue could impact all vending facilities with teaming partners
and the health of the RSVFP, and the SLA did so in accordance with the State’s policies and
procedures for such activities. Therefore, based on the facts in this example, the attorney’s
legal services constitute “management services” under both the VR program and RSVFP --

provided on a “systematic basis to support and improve” the vending facilities operated
under the RSVFP. Because these legal fees constitute allowable management services, the
SLA may use either VR program funds or RSVFP set-aside funds to pay these costs, as well
as any SLA personnel time associated with contracting the legal services.

At the conclusion of the legal matter, should the SLA determine it necessary to retain the
attorney further to provide specialized consultation services to assist the SLA and licensed
blind vendor in choosing a new teaming partner, such legal services also constitute
“management services” for both the VR program and RSVFP. Although the attorney would
advise only the SLA and this one vendor, their advice is systematic in that it would apply to
all vendors in the State and would be implemented methodically in other similar factual
circumstances. For example, the attorney advises the vendor on facts to consider in choosing
a teaming partner, as well as points to remember for ensuring a successful vendor-teaming
partner relationship. This systematic advice benefits the operation of the vending facility
within the broader RSVFP system by ensuring it succeeds and avoids the pitfalls of legal
disputes. Other vendors in the State benefit from this advice as well when shared with them

by the SLA. Therefore, this specialized consultation service, as described here, constitutes


12




---
## Page 13







management services for purposes of both the VR program and RSVFP. As such, the SLA
may use either VR program funds or RSVFP set-aside funds to pay these costs, as well as the
SLA personnel time to manage that legal services contract, which also constitutes
management services.

## 8. The SLA negotiated an agreement with a teaming partner to settle a dispute and has agreed to
pay the teaming partner an amount to end the contract, thereby enabling the licensed blind
vendor to enter into a business relationship with a different teaming partner. The SLA wants
to use Federal VR funds to pay the full negotiated settlement amount to the teaming partner.

Unlike legal fees incurred for consultation purposes on behalf of the SLA for the benefit of
licensed blind vendors and determined to constitute “management services,” as described at
## 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395.1(j) under the factual scenario of Example 7, a legal

settlement payment under the facts as presented in Example 8 does not constitute “inspection,
quality control, consultation, accounting, regulating, in-service training, and related services
provided on a systematic basis to support and improve small business enterprises operated by
individuals with significant disabilities.” First, this settlement payment does not constitute
one of the identified or related types of activities described at 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i)
and 395.1(j) as a “management service.” Second, the settlement payment benefits the adverse
party (i.e., the teaming partner), not the licensed blind vendors. As noted in the facts, the
teaming partner and licensed blind vendor were in a dispute, which the SLA agreed to settle
on behalf of the vendor, paying out a sum of money to the teaming partner. In Example 8, the
payment at issue is the legal settlement to the teaming partner – who is adverse to the vendor,
not the legal advice provided to reach the settlement agreement, which would be more
similar to the allowable legal services provided under the factual scenario in Example 7
above. Third, while settling the case could provide an indirect benefit to the RSVFP by
reducing the amount of legal costs otherwise incurred and redirecting those funds to other
efforts benefiting the RSVFP and VR programs, such a tangential connection does not allow
funds spent on settlement costs in one case to become management services provided on a

systematic basis to support and improve vending facilities operated by blind vendors as a
whole.

For these reasons, the SLA cannot use VR program funds or RSVFP set-aside funds to pay
the settlement payments under the facts of Example 8 or administrative costs associated with
the actual payment. However, just as in Example 7, the personnel time spent negotiating the
settlement, whether directly or contracting with legal services, under the facts in Example 8
is a management service.

## 9. The SLA contracts with an attorney to represent its own interests in a dispute with a blind
vendor, including the evidentiary hearing and arbitration proceeding.

Unlike the legal services provided in Example 7 above, which were for the benefit of the
RSVFP vending facilities and the licensed blind vendors and clearly to support and improve
the vending facilities on a systematic basis, the SLA retains the attorney in Example 9 to

provide these legal services to represent its (i.e., the SLA’s) own interests – not the interests
of the licensed blind vendors or the RSVFP. To be clear, in Example 7, the SLA hires the


13




---
## Page 14







attorney to assist the licensed blind vendor and their interests because the SLA and vendor
are on the same side with similar interests. However, in Example 9, the SLA hires the
attorney to represent itself against the vendor and their interest, meaning the SLA and vendor
are adverse parties to one another with opposing interests. In Example 9, these legal services
do not provide systematic support and improvement for the vending facilities operated under
the RSVFP; rather, they oppose the interests of the licensed blind vendor. As such, these legal
services in the factual scenario of Example 9 do not constitute “management services” as
described at 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395.1(j). Therefore, the SLA cannot use VR
program funds or RSVFP set-aside funds for this purpose or for any associated administrative
costs for the personnel time to manage the legal services contract. The personnel time does
not constitute management services for the same reason that the legal services in this
example do not.


Having said this, SLAs may allocate such legal fees to the RSVFP (as a program, but not to
the RSVFP set-aside funds) because, under certain circumstances, such costs are reasonable
in the SLA’s administration of the RSVFP. Specifically, the R-S Act (20 U.S.C. § 107d–1(a))
and 34 C.F.R. § 395.13) requires that the SLA conduct a full evidentiary hearing when a
blind vendor is “dissatisfied with any action arising from the operation or administration of
the vending facility program.” After the evidentiary hearing, blind vendors dissatisfied with
any action taken or decision rendered from the hearing may file a complaint with the
Secretary of Education, requesting arbitration under the R-S Act (20 U.S.C. § 107d–1(a) and
## 34 C.F.R. § 395.13), thereby necessitating legal assistance by the SLA to defend its interest in
these matters. As such, SLAs may allocate these legal expenses only to the RSVFP because
they benefit only that program and none other. SLAs may not allocate these costs to the VR
program because the VR program does not benefit from these costs nor do these costs aid in
the administration of the VR program’s requirements.

Because the RSVFP receives no Federal funding, it must subsist on State appropriated and

other non-Federal funding, as well as VR funds and RSVFP set-aside funds to the extent
either of these two sources of funds are allowable, to cover certain costs incurred under the
RSVFP. As stated above, these legal services and their associated administrative costs do not
constitute allowable management services under either the VR program or RSVFP
requirements, thereby rendering VR program funds and RSVFP set-aside funds as
unallowable sources of funding for this purpose. However, SLAs may pay for these legal fees
and their administrative costs with State appropriated or other non-Federal funds, to the
extent such costs are consistent with the requirements of those funding sources, but the SLA
cannot count these expenditures toward satisfying its match and MOE requirements under the
VR program since these costs are not allowable under that program.

## 10. The SLA leases a warehouse to store RSVFP equipment, but a State building has become
available to the agency for this purpose. The building requires extensive renovations to
ensure the usability of the space to store RSVFP equipment. The SLA wants to use VR
program funds to pay the costs of these renovations.


## Section 103(b)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.49(a)(5) permit a VR agency,
in pertinent part, to expend VR program funds for the acquisition of vending facilities and


14




---
## Page 15







equipment13, and management services provided on a systematic basis to support and
improve vending facilities operated by licensed blind vendors. There is no time limit imposed
on the provision of these services.

The regulations at 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395.1(j) do not provide an exhaustive list
of examples of “management services”; however, the regulation makes clear that these
activities include inspection, accounting, quality control, and related services provided on a
systematic basis to improve and support vending facilities operated by licensed blind
vendors. On a very basic level, under the factual scenario in Example 10, the warehousing of
stored vending equipment and the personnel time to manage the warehousing of that stored
equipment would fall within the scope of “management services” because it involves the
inspection of that equipment, inventorying of that equipment for accounting purposes, and
ensuring quality control of the condition of the stored equipment. The SLA personnel

performs these activities on a systematic basis (i.e., methodical and standardized) for the
benefit and support of all vending facilities operated in the State. For this reason, under the
facts of Example 10, the SLA may use VR program funds and RSVFP set-aside funds to pay
the costs associated in general with the warehousing of stored vending equipment, including
the costs to ready the space for storing the equipment and the SLA personnel time for
warehousing the equipment)

Although the storage of vending equipment and readying the State-owned warehouse for that
purpose would constitute management services, to spend VR funds or RSVFP set-aside funds
on such a capital improvement project (i.e., readying the space to house the stored
equipment) requires prior written approval from RSA. (2 C.F.R. § 200.407). Therefore, with
respect to the specific improvements to the new State-owned warehouse building that are
necessary to house the equipment and the cost of those improvements in Example 10, the VR
agency must request prior written approval from RSA. Factors RSA uses to determine
whether to grant prior written approval include, but are not limited to:


- •  how the agency demonstrates its compliance with 2 C.F.R. § 200.316, which protects the
Federal interest by requiring real property, equipment, and intangible property, acquired,
or improved with a Federal award, to be held in trust by the grantee as trustee for the
beneficiaries of the program under which the property was acquired or improved. This
could involve the VR agency receiving written binding assurances from the State
property authority that guarantee the building will be held for the VR program’s sole use
for the duration of the usable life of the capital improvements;
- •  whether the agency followed its State procurement policies as required under 2 C.F.R. §
200.317; and
- •  the necessity, reasonableness, and allocability of the costs in accordance with 2 C.F.R. §§
200.403 through 200.405.

Because these costs are allowable management services costs under both the VR program

and RSVFP, all expenditures incurred with non-Federal funds (including RSVFP set-aside

13
For more information regarding the use of VR program funds and RSVFP set-aside funds with respect to
vending facilities and equipment, please see RSA-TAC-24-06, Allowable Costs for Vending Facilities and
Equipment for Vendors Under the Randolph-Sheppard Vending Facility Program, dated August 13, 2024.
15




---
## Page 16







funds) count toward the State’s match and MOE requirements. This would be true for any
expenditures incurred for SLA personnel time to manage the inventory of the RSVFP
equipment or to request prior written approval from RSA because these expenditures also
would constitute management services for both the VR program and RSVFP.

## 11. The SLA acquires and converts a vending facility from a vending machine facility to a micro
market. This requires the acquisition of new equipment and additional stocks and supplies
not previously sold in the vending machines. To install the new equipment (e.g., wall-to-wall
refrigerator cases and wall-to-wall shelving), the SLA hires a plumber, electrician, and
carpenter to do the necessary work associated with their installations. The SLA also contracts
with CCC Corp. to develop a financial and data management software that can be used by all
micro markets in the RSVFP for reporting purposes, including this new micro market. The
contract includes individualized technical assistance for each of the micro market vendors, as

needed, to answer their specific questions when using the software. The vendors will use the
software to do their own bookkeeping, but also to report data to the SLA for the RSA-15
report. The SLA wants to pay all costs associated with the conversion of this vending facility
to a micro market with Federal VR program funds and report the expenditures as
“management services.”

Most of the expenditures described in Example 11 do not constitute “management services”
as that term is described at 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395.1(j). Rather, most of the
expenditures pertain to the acquisition of a single vending facility (i.e., converting it from a
vending machine facility to a micro market facility), the acquisition of equipment, and the
purchase of initial stocks and supplies, as permitted by Section 103(b)(1) of the
Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.49(a)(5). In addition, 34 C.F.R. § 395.9(b)(2)
authorizes the use of RSVFP set-aside funds to purchase the equipment and ready the space
to install it. However, the SLA cannot use RSVFP set-aside funds to pay for the purchase of
initial stocks and supplies since they are not allowable expenditures under the RSVFP; this

means it can use only VR program funds to pay these costs. Therefore, any SLA personnel
time incurred for the purpose of purchasing the initial stocks and supplies could be paid only
with VR program funds as “management services” since the underlying service is allowable
only with VR program funds; in other words, RSVFP set-aside funds cannot pay this
personnel time as management services.

With respect to the contract with CCC Corp. to develop a new financial and data
management system exclusively for the micro market vending facilities in the State, these
development costs would constitute “management services under these facts.” As permitted
by 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.49(a)(5)(i) and 395.1(j), “management services” include consultation,
accounting, and related services provided on a systematic basis to support and improve the
operation of vending facilities operated by licensed blind vendors under the RSVFP. In this
case, CCC Corp. develops the financial and data management system to improve the
financial and data management for all micro markets in the RSVFP, not tailored for the needs
of particular vendors or vending facilities. CCC Corp. rolls out the software methodically to
benefit the RSVFP micro market vending system. All micro market vendors will use the

system to manage and report their financial data to the SLA who, in turn, will use that data to
report the data on the RSA-15. The vendors also will use this data management system for


16




---
## Page 17







their own bookkeeping purposes; they will use the system to generate their own income and
sales tax reports and 1099s and other such required forms and reports. In other words, CCC
Corp. does not do the bookkeeping or data management work for the vendors; rather CCC
Corp. simply developed the software that provides a standardized methodology – a
systematic approach for the delivery of the services – so the vendors are able to work as
independent business operators, thereby supporting and improving the RSVFP on a
systematic basis. As such, the software development and its implementation meet a
fundamental criterion for “management services.” As a “management service,” under the
facts of this example, the SLA may use VR program funds and RSVFP set-aside funds to pay
the cost associated with this contract for developing and managing the financial and data
management system, including any SLA personnel time to manage that portion of the
contract. As such, all costs associated with the development of the system, including the
personnel time to manage that system, are allowable with both VR program funds and

RSVFP set-aside funds, or a combination of both sources of funds. In this example, the SLA
personnel time constitutes management services for purposes of both the VR program and
RSVFP. All non-Federal expenditures incurred with respect to the development of the
financial and data management system, including SLA personnel time to manage it, count
toward the State’s match and MOE requirements.

Moreover, the individualized technical assistance (i.e., customer support) provided by CCC
Corp. does not change the fundamental nature that this financial and data management
system constitutes “management services” under both the VR program and RSVFP. As noted
above, the development and implementation of the financial and data management system
addresses the needs of the entire RSVFP micro market system. In rolling out the new system,
CCC Corp. provides customer support to the vendors using the system, thereby providing
consultation services on behalf of the SLA to ensure that the vendors have the information
they need to use the system properly and efficiently. In so doing, CCC Corp., providing
consultation services to the RSVFP vendors on behalf of the SLA, supports the vendors in
their use of the system, thereby improving the financial and other data reported by them to

the SLA and eventually to RSA.

## 12. A State VR agency pays all management services with RSVFP set-aside funds. This State has
sufficient non-Federal funds from other sources for the VR program to match its entire grant
amount and reallotment funds. So, it does not want to report these expenditures on the
## RSA-17 as non-Federal expenditures incurred under the VR program.

Regardless of whether a State needs to count all non-Federal expenditures for match
purposes (i.e., because it has enough to match all Federal VR funds available to it), the State
still must report all allowable non-Federal expenditures incurred under the VR program for
MOE  purposes. Section 111(a)(2)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.62 make
clear that to calculate a State’s MOE, the State must compare the total non-Federal
expenditures in the prior year with the total non-Federal expenditures incurred two years
prior to that year. For that reason, VR agencies must report on their RSA-17 reports all
allowable non-Federal expenditures incurred during the Federal Fiscal Year under the VR
program, including those non-Federal expenditures incurred for the benefit of the RSVFP

under Section 103(b)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act and 34 C.F.R. § 361.49(a)(5). This means


17




---
## Page 18







that the VR agency must report all non-Federal expenditures allowable under the VR
program and paid with RSVFP set-aside funds, such as those in this example paid for
management services. Only in so doing can the VR agency ensure it accurately reports the
total amount of non-Federal expenditures for purposes of determining whether the State
satisfied its MOE requirement under the VR program. Therefore, regardless of whether a
State needs to use the non-Federal expenditures for match purposes, the State still must
report the non-Federal expenditures for MOE purposes.

On the other hand, if the State incurs costs under the RSVFP that are not allowable under the
VR program, such as management services associated with fair minimum return or
sick/vacation/pension funds, pursuant to 34 C.F.R. § 395.9(b)(4) and (5), respectively, the
agency need not report these non-Federal expenditures on the RSA-17. Because these non-
Federal expenditures are not allowable under the VR program, they do not count toward the

## State’s match or MOE requirements under the VR program.

# SUMMARY:

Under both the VR program and RSVFP, the SLA can provide “management services” through a
variety of means on a systematic basis to support and improve vending facilities operated by
licensed blind vendors under the RSVFP. The SLA may provide these services directly or may
contract with specialists or other entities. Although management services can occur on an on-
going basis, they differ from ongoing operational costs of the vending facilities themselves
because management services provide systematic support to the RSVFP as a whole and are not
tailored to the needs of any particular vending facility or vendor. SLAs may use VR program
funds and RSVFP set-aside funds to pay for management services, including SLA personnel time
to manage those services; however, there may be circumstances, because of the underlying
services being supervised, that only RSVFP set-aside funds can be used to pay for the
management services and not VR program funds and vice versa. No time limit exists for the

provision of management services, regardless of whether SLAs pay for those services with VR
program funds, RSVFP set-aside funds, or a combination of the two sources of funds. All costs
allowable under the VR program, whether paid with VR or RSVFP set-aside funds, must satisfy
the Federal cost principles at 2 C.F.R. §§ 200.403 through 200.405.

## EFFECTIVE DATE: Immediately upon issuance.

# INQUIRIES:

## David Steele, Chief
## Fiscal Unit
## David.Steele@ed.gov

# CITATIONS:

## Rehabilitation Act of 1973





18




---
## Page 19







## Randolph-Sheppard Act

VR Program Regulations at 34 C.F.R. part 361 at §§ 361.3, 361.5(c)(2), 361.13, 361.49(a)(5),
361.60, and 361.62
RSVFP regulations at 34 C.F.R. part 395 at §§ 395.1, 395.2, 395.3, 395.9, 395.13, and 395.14

Uniform Grants Guidance at 2 C.F.R. part 200 at §§ 200.316, 200.317, 200.403 through 200.405,
and 200.407



/s/
## Danté Q. Allen
## Commissioner



cc:  Council of State Administrators of Vocational Rehabilitation
## National Council of State Agencies for the Blind
## National Association of Blind Merchants































19

