# tac-15-01







# U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND
# REHABILITATIVE SERVICES
## REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
# WASHINGTON, D.C. 20202

# TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CIRCULAR
# RSA-TAC-15-01
## DATE: August 13, 2015

## ADDRESSEES:    STATE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION AGENCIES
# STATE REHABILITATION COUNCILS
# CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

SUBJECT:       Vision for the One-Stop Delivery System under the Workforce Innovation

and Opportunity Act (WIOA)

PURPOSE:       This Technical Assistance Circular (TAC) lays out the vision for the one-
stop delivery system under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
- (WIOA) and links to key technical assistance resources to support States
and local areas as they integrate this vision into their one-stop delivery
system. Separate guidance is being issued by the Department of Labor’s
## Employment and Training Administration and the Department of
## Education’s Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education to their
grantees who are partners in the workforce development system. It was
developed in collaboration with these agencies, as well as with the
## Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children
and Families.

WIOA, which was signed into law on July 22, 2014, is designed to help
job seekers access employment, education, training, and support services

to succeed in the labor market and to match employers with the skilled
workers they need to compete in the global economy. WIOA supersedes
titles I and II of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, and amends the
## Wagner-Peyser Act and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.

The Departments of Labor and Education published a set of proposed
regulations for implementing WIOA in five Notices of Proposed
Rulemaking (NPRMs) in the Federal Register on April 15, 2015, with a
60-day public comment period. The Departments will review, analyze,
and consider the thousands of comments received in response to the
## NPRMs. The Final rule will be published in 2016.

In order to assist States in implementing the requirements of WIOA prior
to the Final rules, RSA will issue a series of operating guidance in the
form of TACs, such as this, which will assist the Vocational Rehabilitation
- (VR) agencies with the important planning and organizational work







---
## Page 2







necessary to comply with the WIOA statutory requirements. The
operating guidance TACs will provide a framework for program activities
until the regulations are finalized.

## REFERENCES:    See Attachment 1.

# BACKGROUND:
The vision for the one-stop delivery system contained in this TAC reflects
the long-standing and ongoing work of dedicated workforce professionals
around the country to align a wide range of publicly and privately funded
education, employment, and training programs while also providing high-
quality customer service to job seekers, workers, and businesses through
the one-stop delivery system.

## The creation of one-stop centers (currently branded as American Job
Centers) was a cornerstone of WIA when it passed in 1998. In the years
between the passage of WIA and WIOA — and longer for those
communities that piloted one-stop centers under the Job Training

Partnership Act of 1982 — the workforce system has tested a variety of
approaches to maximize the benefits of one-stop centers to its direct
customers and their communities. In the last 10 years, technological
advancements have opened up new avenues of service delivery, and the
increased availability of evidence-based models has strengthened our
shared understanding of the best of these approaches. In addition, the
## Obama Administration worked intensively with federal agencies in 2013
and 2014 to reform federal employment, education, and training programs
to create a more integrated, job-driven service delivery system. A job-
driven service delivery system is one that results in linking our nation’s
diverse talent with employers and businesses. As a result of this work,
one-stop centers continue to be a valued community resource, known both
locally and nationally as an important source of assistance for those
looking for work or workers, and those looking for opportunities to grow
their careers.


WIOA recognizes the value of the one-stop delivery system, and provides
the workforce system with important tools to enhance the quality of its
one-stop centers. The law strengthens the ability of States, regions, and
local areas to align investments in workforce, education, and economic
development to regional in-demand jobs. It also places greater emphasis
on achieving results for job seekers, workers, and businesses. Finally, it
reinforces the partnerships and strategies necessary for one-stop centers to
provide job seekers and workers with the high-quality career services,
education and training, and supportive services they need to obtain good
jobs and stay employed; and to help businesses find skilled workers and
access other supports, including education and training for their current
workforce.


2





---
## Page 3







## Since the one-stop delivery system was established, technology has made
lasting changes to our economy and society. Mobile workers and
businesses with regional and national footprints that cross municipal
borders are much more common. For that reason, there is an increased
customer demand for consistent, high-quality education, employment, and
training services across the country. The passage of WIOA supports the
workforce system in meeting that demand, and the adoption of a national
vision for the one-stop delivery system and its one-stop centers is an
important first step in that work.

# VISION FOR THE
# ONE-STOP
# CENTERS UNDER

# WIOA:
## The publicly funded workforce system envisioned by WIOA is quality-
focused, employer-driven, customer-centered, and tailored to meet the
needs of regional economies. It is designed to increase access to, and
opportunities for, the employment, education, training, and support
services that individuals need to succeed in the labor market, particularly
those with barriers to employment. It aligns workforce development,
education, and economic development programs with regional economic
development strategies to meet the needs of local and regional employers,
and provide a comprehensive, accessible, and high-quality workforce
development system. This is accomplished by providing all customers
access to high-quality one-stop centers that connect them with the full
range of services available in their communities, whether they are looking
to find jobs, build basic educational or occupational skills, earn a
postsecondary certificate or degree, or obtain guidance on how to make
career choices, or are businesses and employers seeking skilled workers.


Under WIOA, partner programs and entities that are jointly responsible for
workforce and economic development, educational, and other human
resource programs collaborate to create a seamless customer-focused one-
stop delivery system that integrates service delivery across all programs
and enhances access to the programs’ services. The one-stop delivery
system includes six core programs (Title I adult, dislocated worker, and
youth programs; Title II adult education and literacy programs; Title III
## Wagner-Peyser program; and Title IV vocational rehabilitation program),
as well as other required and optional partners identified in WIOA.1

## 1 In addition to the core programs, required partners include the Senior Community Service Employment Program;
job counseling, training, and placement services for veterans authorized under chapter 41 of title 38; career and
technical postsecondary education programs authorized under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education
Act of 2006; Trade Adjustment Assistance Programs; employment and training activities carried out under the
Community Services Block Grant; U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) employment and
training programs; Unemployment Compensation programs; programs authorized under the Second Chance Act of
2007, Section 212 (reintegration of ex-offenders); and programs authorized under the Social Security Act Title IV,

3





---
## Page 4







## Through the one-stop centers, these partner programs and their service
providers ensure that businesses and job seekers — a shared client base
across the multiple programs identified above — have access to
information and services that lead to positive employment outcomes.
## Under WIOA, one-stop centers and their partners:

- • provide job seekers with the skills and credentials necessary to secure
and advance in employment with family-sustaining wages;
- • provide access and opportunities to all job seekers, including
individuals with barriers to employment, such as individuals with
disabilities, to prepare for, obtain, retain, and advance in high-quality

jobs and high-demand careers;
- • enable businesses and employers to easily identify and hire skilled
workers and access other supports, including education and training
for their current workforce;
- • participate in rigorous evaluations that support continuous
improvement of one-stop centers by identifying which strategies work
better for different populations;
- • ensure that high-quality integrated data inform decisions made by
policymakers, employers, and job seekers.

## The management of the one-stop delivery system is the shared
responsibility of States, local boards, elected officials, the core WIOA
partners, other required partners, and one-stop center operators. The

## Departments encourage all of these entities to integrate the characteristics
below into their work, including developing state, regional, and local
strategic plans; establishing one-stop center certification criteria;
examining the state, regional, and local footprint of one-stop centers;
conducting competitions for selecting one-stop center operators;
developing local Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs); updating other
one-stop center policies and procedures; and operating and delivering
services through the one-stop centers.






Part A (TANF), unless the Governor determines that TANF is not a required partner.

Optional partners may include, with the approval of the local board and chief elected officials, the U.S. Social
Security Administration (SSA) employment and training program (i.e. Ticket to Work programs); Supplemental
Nutrition and Assistance Program (SNAP) employment and training programs; the Vocational Rehabilitation Client
Assistance Program; National and Community Service Act Programs; and other employment, education, or training
programs such as those operated by libraries or in the private sector.



4





---
## Page 5







# CHARACTERISTICS
# OF A
# HIGH-QUALITY
# ONE-STOP CENTER:
## The characteristics identified below, consistent with the purpose and
authorized scope of each of the programs, are designed to reflect elements
that the Departments believe contribute to a high-quality one-stop delivery
system. They demonstrate the spirit and intent of WIOA, and the
## Departments believe they will strengthen the successful integration and
implementation of partner programs in one-stop centers. For clarity and
readability the characteristics have been grouped into three functional
categories: (a) Customer Service; (b) Innovation and Service Design; and
- (c) Systems Integration and High-Quality Staffing.


- a. One-Stop Centers Provide Excellent Customer Service to Job
## Seekers, Workers, and Businesses. Meeting the needs of job
seekers, workers, and businesses is important in developing thriving
communities where all citizens succeed and businesses prosper. High-
quality one-stop centers:

- • Reflect a welcoming environment to all customer groups who are
served by the one-stop centers. All one-stop center staff are
courteous, polite, responsive, and helpful to job seekers, businesses,
and others who visit the one-stop centers, either in person or by
telephone or e-mail. Moreover, one-stop center staff are sensitive to
the unique needs of individuals with disabilities and are prepared to
provide necessary accommodations.


- • Develop, offer, and deliver quality business services that assist
specific businesses and industry sectors in overcoming the challenges
of recruiting, retaining, and developing talent for the regional
economy. To support area employers and industry sectors most
effectively, one-stop center staff identify and have a clear
understanding of industry skill needs, identify appropriate strategies
for assisting employers, and coordinate business services activities
across one-stop center partner programs, as appropriate. This includes
the incorporation of an integrated and aligned business services
strategy among one-stop center partners to present a unified voice for
the one-stop center in its communications with employers.
## Additionally, one-stop centers use the forthcoming performance
measure(s) on effectiveness in serving employers to support
continuous improvement of these services.

- • Improve the skills of job seeker and worker customers. One-stop

centers offer access to education and training leading to industry-
recognized credentials through the use of career pathways,

5





---
## Page 6







apprenticeships, and other strategies that enable customers, including
those with disabilities, to compete successfully in today’s global
economy. They provide businesses with access to the quantity and
quality of talent they need and support upskill/backfill strategies that
expand job opportunities in the community.

- • Create opportunities for individuals at all skill levels and levels of
experience by providing customers, including those with disabilities,
as much timely, labor market, job-driven information and choice as
possible related to education and training, careers, and service delivery
options, while offering customers the opportunity to receive both skill-
development and job placement services.


- • Provide career services that motivate, support, and empower
customers, including individuals with disabilities, to make informed
decisions based on local and regional economic demand and
effectively attain their personal employment and education goals.

- • Value skill development by assessing and improving each
individual’s basic, occupational, and employability skills.

- b. One-Stop Centers Reflect Innovative and Effective Service Design.
## High-quality one-stop centers:

- • Use an integrated and expert intake process for all customers

entering the one-stop centers. Frontline staff are highly familiar with
the functions and basic eligibility requirements of each program, and
can appropriately assist customers and make knowledgeable referrals
to partner programs, as needed and as appropriate given the authorized
scope of the program.

- • Design and implement practices that actively engage industry
sectors and use economic and labor market information, sector
strategies, career pathways, Registered Apprenticeships, and
competency models to help drive skill-based initiatives.

- • Balance traditional labor exchange services with strategic talent
development within a regional economy. This includes use of
market-driven principles and labor market information that help to

define a regional economy, its demographics, its workforce and its
assets and gaps in skills and resources.

- • Ensure meaningful access to all customers. One-stop centers must
be physically and programmatically accessible to all customers,
including individuals with disabilities. In so doing, one-stop centers
use principles of universal design and human-centered design, such as

6





---
## Page 7







flexibility in space usage; the use of pictorial, written, verbal, and
tactile modes to present information for customers with disabilities or
limited English proficiency; providing clear lines of sight to
information for seated or standing users; providing necessary
accommodations; and providing adequate space for the use of assistive
devices or personal assistants. One-stop centers use assistive
technology and flexible business hours to meet the range of customer
needs.

- • Include both virtual and center-based service delivery for job
seekers, workers, and employers. Both methods of delivery support
the talent needs of the regional economy, although each may better

serve different customers with different levels of service needs at any
given time. The one-stop delivery system can expand its reach by
delivering robust virtual services and increasing the accessibility of
those services through community partners, such as libraries,
community and faith-based organizations, and other partners.

- • Incorporate innovative and evidence-based delivery models that
improve the integration of education and training, create career
pathways that lead to industry-recognized credentials, encourage
work-based learning, and use state-of-the-art technology to accelerate
learning and promote college and career success.

- c. One-Stop Centers Operate with Integrated Management Systems
and High-Quality Staffing. High-quality one-stop centers:


- • Reflect the establishment of robust partnerships among partners.
## The one-stop center operator facilitates an integrated, co-located
partnership that seamlessly incorporates services of the core partners
and other one-stop center partners.

- • Organize and integrate services by function (rather than by
program), when permitted by a program’s authorizing statute and as
appropriate, and by coordinating staff communication, capacity
building, and training efforts. Functional alignment includes having
one-stop center staff who perform similar tasks serve on relevant
functional teams, e.g. Skills Development Team, Business Services
## Team. Service integration focuses on serving all customers seamlessly
(including targeted populations) by providing a full range of services
staffed by cross-functional teams, consistent with the purpose, scope,

and requirements of each program.

- • Develop and maintain integrated case management systems that
inform customer service throughout the customer’s interaction with the
integrated system and allow information collected from customers at

7





---
## Page 8







intake to be captured once. Customer information is properly secured
in accordance with personally identifiable information guidelines, and
facilitated as appropriate, with the necessary memoranda of
understanding or other forms of confidentiality and data sharing
agreements, consistent with federal and state privacy laws and
regulations. Data, however, would be shared with other programs, for
those programs’ purposes, within the one-stop system only after the
informed written consent of the individual has been obtained, where
required.

- • Develop and implement operational policies that reflect an
integrated system of performance, communication, and case

management, and use technology to achieve integration and expanded
service offerings.

- • Use common performance indicators to ensure that federal
investments in employment and training programs are evidence-based,
labor market driven, and accountable to participants and taxpayers.
## Center performance is transparent and accountable to the communities
and regions served; data entry staff are trained and understand the
importance of data validation, data collection processes, and the
importance of accurate reporting.

- • Train and equip one-stop center staff in an ongoing learning process
with the knowledge, skills, and motivation to provide superior service
to job seekers, including those with disabilities, and businesses in an

integrated, regionally focused framework of service delivery. Center
staff are cross-trained, as appropriate, to increase staff capacity,
expertise, and efficiency. Cross-training allows staff from differing
programs to understand every program and to share their expertise
about the needs of specific populations so that all staff can better serve
all customers. Center staff are routinely trained and are keenly aware
as to how their particular function supports and contributes to the
overall vision of the local board.

- • Staff the center with highly trained career counselors, skilled in
advising job seekers of their options, knowledgeable about local labor
market dynamics, aware of available services inside and outside the
one-stop center, and skilled in developing customers’ skills for

employment success.

# RESOURCES:
Along with the resources provided at the WIOA collections page at
http://wioa.workforce3one.org, the following technical assistance tools are
currently available as part of the Departments’ ongoing effort to support


8





---
## Page 9







state and local areas in the adoption of the vision for the one-stop centers
under WIOA.

- a. Provide Excellent Customer Service to Job Seekers, Workers and
## Employers.

- • Opening Doors for Everyone: Providing Outstanding Customer
## Service at One-Stop Career Centers: This toolkit is designed to
provide one-stop center staff members an enhanced level of comfort
when providing service to customers with a diverse array of
backgrounds and needs.
https://wioa.workforce3one.org/view/2001501480321360042/info


- • Expanding Business Engagement: WIOA makes significant changes
to the nation’s workforce development system, expressly incorporating
the sector strategies approach throughout and requiring regional
planning and alignment with local labor market needs for in-demand
sectors and occupations. The Expanding Business Engagement (EBE)
- - Technical Assistance (TA) Initiative will support the strategic
planning and implementation of revitalized or enhanced business
engagement activities within states, regions, and local areas.
http://businessengagement.workforce3one.org

- b. Reflect Innovative and Effective Service Design.

- • One-Stop Service Design: The resources section contains a variety of

curated technical assistance tools, best practices, replicable models,
implementation plans, recorded webinars, videos, research documents,
and data reports to support innovative and effective one-stop center
service design.
https://wioa.workforce3one.org/ws/wioa/pages/resources.aspx?pparam
s=1001501462393639983

- • Legacy Disability Training: Understanding Disability: The purpose of
this introductory course is to provide practical learning experience,
toward acquiring the knowledge and skills needed to provide quality
workforce development services to persons with disabilities.
https://wioa.workforce3one.org/view/4011507054815454755/info

- c. Integrated Administrative Systems and High-Quality Staffing.


- • Integrated Service Delivery Toolkit: This toolkit provides ideas,
strategies and resources for integrating service delivery in the public
workforce system.
https://wioa.workforce3one.org/view/2001508963127430705/info


9





---
## Page 10







- • Effective Case Management: This site contains resources and tools
designed to help system administrators, local leaders and staff to
support high-quality case management in the workforce system.
https://effectivecasemanagement.workforce3one.org/index.aspx

- d. Other One-Stop Vision Technical Assistance Tools.

- • One-Stop Career Centers Fact Sheet: Provides highlights of WIOA
reforms for one-stop centers.
https://wioa.workforce3one.org/view/2001507734890961606/info


- • Quick Start Action Plan (QSAP) for One-Stop Centers: An
interactive, self-paced assessment tool designed to help leaders at all
levels of the public workforce system prepare for implementation of
WIOA. The QSAP helps identify areas of strength and focused areas
for improvement in a state or local workforce system and connects to
targeted resources that can help leaders to prepare and plan effectively.
http://qsap.workforce3one.org/page/planner/OneStop/Questionnaire

# ACTION
# REQUESTED:
As WIOA core programs and partners at the State and local level
implement WIOA in program year 2015, the Departments encourage
states to adopt this vision and build it into the policies and procedures
related to the management of the one-stop delivery system. This includes
developing regional, and local strategic plans; establishing certification

criteria for one-stop centers and the one-stop delivery system; examining
the State, regional, and local footprint of one-stop centers; conducting
competitions for selecting one-stop center operators; developing the local
## MOU; and updating other one-stop center policies and procedures.

# SUMMARY:
## WIOA increases the accountability of core WIOA programs, including the
## VR program, to place emphasis on promoting better alignment among
## Federal job training programs. This vision reinforces the partnerships and
strategies necessary for one-stop centers to provide job seekers and
workers with the high-quality career services, education and training, and
supportive services they need to obtain good jobs and stay employed; and
to help businesses find skilled workers and access other supports,
including education and training for their current workforce.








10





---
## Page 11










## INQUIRIES:     David Jones
## Vocational Rehabilitation Program Unit

- (202) 245-7356
david.jones@ed.gov


/s/
## Janet L. LaBreck
## Commissioner

## Attachment

cc:  Council of State Administrators of Vocational Rehabilitation
## National Council of State Agencies for the Blind
## National Disability Rights Network































11





---
## Page 12







## Attachment 1 - References for the One-Stop Vision

- •  WIOA (Pub. L. 113-128);
- •  WIA (Pub. L. 105-220), Title I;
- •  TEGL No. 3-14, Implementing a Job-Driven Workforce System, July 30, 2014;
- •  TEN No. 5-14, WIOA Announcement and Initial Informational Resources, July 22, 2014;
- •  TEN No. 6-14, Information for Stakeholder Engagement for Workforce Innovation and
## Opportunity Act Implementation, August 15, 2014;
- •  TEGL No. 12-14, Allowable Uses and Funding Limits of WIA Program Year 2014 Funds
for Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Transitional Activities, October 28,
2014;
- •  TEGL No. 15-14, Implementation of the New Uniform Guidance Regulations, December
19, 2014;
- •  TEGL No. 19-14, Vision for the Workforce System and Initial Implementation of the
## Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act dated February 19, 2015

http://wdr.doleta.gov/directives/corr_doc.cfm?DOCN=7353; and
- •  WIOA implementation dates, http://wdr.doleta.gov/directives/attach/TEN/WIOA-Key-
## Implementation-Dates_Acc.pdf
- •  Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) with the Departments of Education and Labor.
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act; Joint Rule for Unified and Combined
State Plans, Performance Accountability, and the One-Stop System Joint Provisions.
## Pages 20573-20687 [FR DOC# 2015-05528] (joint).
- •  Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) with the Departments of Education and Labor.
## Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act. Pages 20689-20966 [FR DOC# 2015-
05530] (Labor only).
- •  Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) with the Departments of Education and Labor.
Programs and Activities Authorized by the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act;
(Title II of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act). Pages 20967-20987 [FR
## DOC# 2015-5540] (Education only).
- •  Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) with the Departments of Education and Labor.
## State Vocational Rehabilitation Services Program; State Supported Employment
## Services Program; Limitations on Use of Subminimum Wage; Pages 21059-21146

[FR DOC# 2015-05538] (Education only).
- •  Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) with the Departments of Education and Labor.
## Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, Miscellaneous Program Changes;
## Pages 20988-21058 [FR DOC# 2015-05535] (Education only).












12


