# tac-15-02







# U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND
# REHABILITATIVE SERVICES
## REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
# WASHINGTON, D.C. 20202


# TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CIRCULAR
# RSA-TAC-15-02
## DATE: August 17, 2015

## ADDRESSEES:    STATE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION AGENCIES
# STATE REHABILITATION COUNCILS

# CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

SUBJECT:       Vision for the State Vocational Rehabilitation Services Program as a
## Partner in the Workforce Development System under the Workforce
## Innovation and Opportunity Act

PURPOSE:       The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) represents the
first major reform of the publicly-funded workforce development system
in more than 15 years. Title IV of WIOA amends the Rehabilitation Act
of 1973 (Rehabilitation Act) by significantly revising requirements for,
among others, the State Vocational Rehabilitation Services (VR) program,
particularly with regard to its role as a core partner in the workforce
development system. WIOA fosters new opportunities for innovation and
collaboration across Federal, State, and local agencies, private
organizations, and employers. The law authorizes increased access to
employment, education, training, and support services to assist individuals

with disabilities, including youth and students with disabilities, to succeed
in the competitive labor market. To that end, the VR program is a critical
component in the workforce development system. Through this technical
assistance circular (TAC), the Rehabilitation Services Administration
- (RSA) sets forth the vision for the VR program as a partner in the
workforce development system by describing a framework to support
implementation activities that will help workers with disabilities to acquire
the skills and credentials they need to pursue in-demand jobs and obtain
competitive integrated employment.
# TECHNICAL
# ASSISTANCE:
The purpose of title I of the Rehabilitation Act is to assist each State in
operating a statewide comprehensive, coordinated, effective, efficient, and
accountable State VR program that is an integral part of a statewide
workforce development system. The purpose of the VR program is to
assess, plan, and provide VR services to individuals with disabilities,
especially individuals with the most significant disabilities, so that they


1





| PURPOSE: The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) represents the |  |
| --- | --- |
|  | first major reform of the publicly-funded workforce development system |
|  | in more than 15 years. Title IV of WIOA amends the Rehabilitation Act |
|  | of 1973 (Rehabilitation Act) by significantly revising requirements for, |
|  | among others, the State Vocational Rehabilitation Services (VR) program, |
|  | particularly with regard to its role as a core partner in the workforce |
|  | development system. WIOA fosters new opportunities for innovation and |
|  | collaboration across Federal, State, and local agencies, private |
|  | organizations, and employers. The law authorizes increased access to |
|  | employment, education, training, and support services to assist individuals |
|  | with disabilities, including youth and students with disabilities, to succeed |
|  | in the competitive labor market. To that end, the VR program is a critical |
|  | component in the workforce development system. Through this technical |
|  | assistance circular (TAC), the Rehabilitation Services Administration |
|  | (RSA) sets forth the vision for the VR program as a partner in the |
|  | workforce development system by describing a framework to support |
|  | implementation activities that will help workers with disabilities to acquire |
|  | the skills and credentials they need to pursue in-demand jobs and obtain |
|  | competitive integrated employment. |



| TECHNICAL |
| --- |
| ASSISTANCE: |



| operating a statewide comprehensive, coordinated, effective, efficient, and |
| --- |
| accountable State VR program that is an integral part of a statewide |
| workforce development system. The purpose of the VR program is to |
| assess, plan, and provide VR services to individuals with disabilities, |
| especially individuals with the most significant disabilities, so that they |



---
## Page 2







may prepare for and engage in competitive integrated employment
consistent with their unique strengths, priorities, concerns, abilities,
capabilities, interests, and informed choice.

Vision for the State VR Program as a core program under WIOA

As a core partner in the one-stop service delivery system, the State VR
program provides individuals with disabilities the services they need to
compete for and achieve high-quality employment in the 21st century
global economy. While individuals with disabilities are a vital and
integral part of our society, some individuals with disabilities face
particular barriers to high-quality employment. RSA envisions the State
## VR program as working with other workforce development system

partners to assist workers with disabilities by providing them with the
necessary services and supports so that they can acquire the skills and
credentials that they need to have the opportunity to pursue in-demand
jobs and careers. In so doing, the State VR program’s leadership in the
one-stop system is critical to growing our economy, ensuring that
everyone who works hard is rewarded, and building a strong middle class.
## To help achieve this vision, WIOA’s amendments to the Rehabilitation
## Act empower individuals with disabilities to maximize employment,
economic self-sufficiency, independence, and inclusion and integration
into society.

## Embedded throughout WIOA, including the amendments to the
## Rehabilitation Act, is the principle that individuals with disabilities,
including those with the most significant disabilities, are capable of
achieving competitive integrated employment when provided the
necessary skills and supports. As such, the amendments to the VR

program made by WIOA are designed to improve employment outcomes
for individuals with disabilities by—

- (1) Strengthening the alignment of the VR program with the other core
programs of the workforce development system through unified
strategic planning requirements, common performance accountability
measures, and requirements governing the one-stop delivery system.

## WIOA strengthens the foundation for the establishment of a
comprehensive, accessible, and high-quality workforce
development system that serves all individuals in need of
education and employment services, including individuals with
disabilities, and employers in a manner that is customer-focused
and that supports an integrated service delivery model. By
creating strong partnerships with the other core programs in the
system, namely Adult, Dislocated Worker, and Youth programs
under title I, the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act


2





| may prepare for and engage in competitive integrated employment |
| --- |
| consistent with their unique strengths, priorities, concerns, abilities, |
| capabilities, interests, and informed choice. |



| As a core partner in the one-stop service delivery system, the State VR |
| --- |
| program provides individuals with disabilities the services they need to |
| compete for and achieve high-quality employment in the 21st century |
| global economy. While individuals with disabilities are a vital and |
| integral part of our society, some individuals with disabilities face |
| particular barriers to high-quality employment. RSA envisions the State |
| VR program as working with other workforce development system |
| partners to assist workers with disabilities by providing them with the |
| necessary services and supports so that they can acquire the skills and |
| credentials that they need to have the opportunity to pursue in-demand |
| jobs and careers. In so doing, the State VR program’s leadership in the |
| one-stop system is critical to growing our economy, ensuring that |
| everyone who works hard is rewarded, and building a strong middle class. |
| To help achieve this vision, WIOA’s amendments to the Rehabilitation |
| Act empower individuals with disabilities to maximize employment, |
| economic self-sufficiency, independence, and inclusion and integration |
| into society. |



| Embedded throughout WIOA, including the amendments to the |
| --- |
| Rehabilitation Act, is the principle that individuals with disabilities |
| including those with the most significant disabilities, are capable of |
| achieving competitive integrated employment when provided the |
| necessary skills and supports. As such, the amendments to the VR |
| program made by WIOA are designed to improve employment outcomes |
| for individuals with disabilities by— |



---
## Page 3







- (AEFLA) program under title II, and the Wagner-Peyser
## Employment Service program under title III, and other partners in
the community necessary to successfully serve individuals with
disabilities, VR agencies can help effectively develop a Unified
State Plan for the core programs, or a Combined State Plan that
incorporates the core partners plus one or more other partners. The
## Unified or Combined State Plan must include a unified strategic
vision and goals for preparing an educated and skilled workforce.
The VR program, as a core program, plays a lead role in the
implementation of a Unified or Combined State Plan that supports
the provision of VR services to enable individuals with disabilities
to obtain competitive integrated employment in high-demand
fields. To that end, the VR agencies can ensure the needs of

individuals with disabilities, especially those with the most
significant disabilities, are incorporated into the State’s unified
strategic planning and goals.

## To improve employment outcomes across the core programs,
## WIOA also strengthens the accountability of the publicly-funded
workforce development system by establishing a common
performance accountability system for all core programs. VR
agencies, along with the other core partners, must use the
performance indicators established in WIOA to assess the
effectiveness of the workforce development systems in their States.
## By aligning and coordinating their data systems, the VR agencies
and the other core partners promote the availability of data that
will be used to evaluate and improve the outcomes of all
participants in the system, including those of individuals with
disabilities.


## As revitalized by WIOA, one-stop centers (currently branded as
## American Job Centers or AJCs) are designed to provide excellent
customer service to jobseekers, workers, and employers and focus
on continuous improvement. One-stop centers and partners
provide job seekers, including individuals with barriers to
employment, such as individuals with disabilities, with the skills
and credentials necessary to secure and advance in employment
with family-sustaining wages. Additionally, AJCs enable
employers to easily identify, recruit, and hire skilled workers and
access other supports, including education and training for their
current workforce. Finally, WIOA encourages the use of rigorous
evaluation to support continuous improvement of AJCs by
identifying which strategies work better for different populations.
## For additional information, see TAC 15-01, “Vision for the One-
## Stop Delivery System under the Workforce Innovation and
## Opportunity Act (WIOA),” dated August 13, 2015. As a core


3





---
## Page 4







partner in the one-stop system, the VR agencies can use their
expertise to ensure that individuals with disabilities get the services
they need through the VR program, as well as other programs in
the one-stop system, to prepare for and obtain competitive
integrated employment. In addition, the VR agencies can play a
critical role in working with employers who are interested in hiring
qualified individuals with disabilities.

- (2) Emphasizing the achievement of competitive integrated employment
by individuals with disabilities, including individuals with the most
significant disabilities.

## The principle that individuals with disabilities are capable of

participating in the competitive integrated labor market when
provided the necessary academic and vocational skills, services,
and supports is interwoven throughout WIOA’s amendments to the
## Rehabilitation Act, thereby ensuring that individuals with
disabilities are provided a full opportunity through the VR program
to engage in job-driven training and pursue high-quality
employment outcomes. For example, by providing VR services,
including financial support for graduate-level degrees to
individuals pursuing career advancement or by serving, outside of
an order of selection, individuals with disabilities who are in
immediate danger of losing employment, VR agencies can
maximize the potential for individuals with disabilities to prepare
for, obtain, retain, and advance in the same high-quality jobs and
high demand careers as persons without disabilities.

## WIOA enhances the VR agencies’ ability to coordinate,

collaborate, and work with employers, as well as with other entities
providing services to individuals with disabilities to support the
achievement of competitive integrated employment. Collaboration
with employers and these other entities is essential to the success
of VR program participants. WIOA enhances opportunities for VR
agencies to provide needed training and technical assistance
services to employers hiring, or interested in hiring, individuals
with disabilities, including the availability of work-based learning
experiences that prepare individuals with disabilities, including
students and youth with disabilities, for success in competitive
integrated employment.

## WIOA also places heightened emphasis on the provision of
services necessary to assist youth with disabilities, including youth
with the most significant disabilities, to achieve competitive
integrated employment in the community, including supported or
customized employment. These amendments, along with the


4





---
## Page 5







limitations on the payment of subminimum wages to individuals
with disabilities added by section 511, demonstrate the intent that
individuals with significant disabilities, especially youth, must be
afforded a full opportunity to prepare for, obtain, maintain,
advance in, or re-enter competitive integrated employment. To
that end, VR agencies should coordinate the delivery of services to
youth with disabilities, especially youth with the most significant
disabilities, with other providers in the State who serve this
population to ensure they receive the necessary services and
supports to achieve competitive integrated employment.

- (3) Expanding services to support the transition of students and youth
with disabilities from secondary education to postsecondary education

and employment.

## While the VR program has always provided transition services to
eligible students with disabilities, the Rehabilitation Act, as
amended by WIOA, expands the population eligible to receive
certain discrete services and permits a wider range of services to
students who are transitioning from school to post-school
activities. Section 113 of the Rehabilitation Act requires that VR
agencies reserve at least 15 percent of their VR allotment to
coordinate with local educational agencies in providing, or
arranging for the provision of, pre-employment transition services
to students with disabilities who are eligible or potentially eligible
for VR services and in need of such services. In addition, the
## Rehabilitation Act permits the provision of transition services for
the benefit of groups of youth with disabilities. Because of these
amendments, VR agencies now have an opportunity to provide VR

services to a broader population of students and youth with
disabilities to assist them in preparing for and obtaining
competitive integrated employment. VR agencies should work
with State and local educational agencies to ensure that the
services provided are coordinated and seamless across the various
programs that support transition for students and youth with
disabilities from secondary education to postsecondary education
and employment.

## Take Action Now

On April 16, 2015, the Departments of Education (ED) and Labor (DOL)
- (Departments) published five Notices of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRMs)
and anticipate publishing final regulations in the spring of 2016.
However, many of the actions States need to take to transition to the new
requirements imposed by WIOA must be initiated before the final
regulations are issued. RSA strongly encourages States to begin planning


5





| On April 16, 2015, the Departments of Education (ED) and Labor (DOL) |
| --- |
| (Departments) published five Notices of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRMs) |
| and anticipate publishing final regulations in the spring of 2016. |
| However, many of the actions States need to take to transition to the new |
| requirements imposed by WIOA must be initiated before the final |
| regulations are issued. RSA strongly encourages States to begin planning |



---
## Page 6







and taking action for transitioning to the new requirements under WIOA
to achieve successful implementation and ultimately realize the intent of
## WIOA and RSA’s vision. RSA, in collaboration with our Federal
workforce development and education partners, will issue technical
assistance and guidance to assist States in implementing WIOA’s
requirements. This is especially true for the VR program since the
provisions contained in title IV of WIOA (i.e., the amendments to the
## Rehabilitation Act) were effective upon enactment (July 22, 2014). Most
other provisions in WIOA took effect July 1, 2015; however, there are
provisions for an orderly transition from the Workforce Investment Act of
1998 to WIOA during Program Year (PY) 2015, also known as the
transition year.


In the interim, we encourage VR agencies to begin the process of
implementation, particularly those requirements that took effect on July
22, 2014, such as, among others, developing Individualized Plans for
## Employment (IPE) within 90 days after eligibility determination and
reserving at least 15 percent of the State’s VR allotment for the provision
of pre-employment transition services. The statute, proposed regulations,
and interim guidance already available provide a framework for initial
implementation activities. It is imperative that VR agencies begin
collaborating with other partners to prepare for implementing those
requirements that go into effect on July 1, 2016 (PY 2016), specifically
those related to the Unified or Combined State Plan, the performance
accountability system, and establishment of the one-stop delivery system.

## Below are recommended actions that workforce development system
leaders and partners, including VR agencies, can take to move toward
implementing WIOA’s requirements. Several of the recommended

actions are also emphasized in the DOL Training and Employment
## Guidance Letter (TEGL) No. 19-14, entitled Vision for the Workforce
## System and Initial Implementation of the Workforce Innovation and
Opportunity Act of 2014. VR agencies should consider these actions in
any transition discussions with the other core partners to ensure that their
States are well positioned to implement the vision of WIOA. This list is
not exhaustive, and each State should fully assess its own situation and
requirements to determine the activities it will need to undertake to
support a full and effective transition.

  Assess State laws. It is important to review State statutes and
proposed legislation in order to identify areas that may conflict
with WIOA so that plans and strategies can be made to resolve
these conflicts.

  Review State VR policies to identify areas where updates are

needed to reflect changes in the Rehabilitation Act with the

6





| WIOA and RSA’s vision. RSA, in collaboration with our Federal |
| --- |
| workforce development and education partners, will issue technical |
| assistance and guidance to assist States in implementing WIOA’s |
| requirements. This is especially true for the VR program since the |
| provisions contained in title IV of WIOA (i.e., the amendments to the |
| Rehabilitation Act) were effective upon enactment (July 22, 2014). Most |
| other provisions in WIOA took effect July 1, 2015; however, there are |
| provisions for an orderly transition from the Workforce Investment Act of |
| 1998 to WIOA during Program Year (PY) 2015, also known as the |
| transition year. |



| implementation, particularly those requirements that took effect on July |
| --- |
| 22, 2014, such as, among others, developing Individualized Plans for |
| Employment (IPE) within 90 days after eligibility determination and |
| reserving at least 15 percent of the State’s VR allotment for the provision |
| of pre-employment transition services. The statute, proposed regulations, |
| and interim guidance already available provide a framework for initial |
| implementation activities. It is imperative that VR agencies begin |
| collaborating with other partners to prepare for implementing those |
| requirements that go into effect on July 1, 2016 (PY 2016), specifically |
| those related to the Unified or Combined State Plan, the performance |
| accountability system, and establishment of the one-stop delivery system. |



| Below are recommended actions that workforce development system |
| --- |
| leaders and partners, including VR agencies, can take to move toward |
| implementing WIOA’s requirements. Several of the recommended |
| actions are also emphasized in the DOL Training and Employment |
| Guidance Letter (TEGL) No. 19-14, entitled Vision for the Workforce |
| System and Initial Implementation of the Workforce Innovation and |
| Opportunity Act of 2014. VR agencies should consider these actions in |
| any transition discussions with the other core partners to ensure that their |



| not exhaustive, and each State should fully assess its own situation and |
| --- |
| requirements to determine the activities it will need to undertake to |
| support a full and effective transition. |



---
## Page 7







enactment of WIOA. This would include policies related to:
eligibility determination; development of the IPE; the provision of
services to students and youth with disabilities transitioning from
secondary education to postsecondary education and work; the
provision of supported employment services to individuals with the
most significant disabilities; the implementation of an order of
selection; and the provision of services that assist individuals with
disabilities to achieve competitive integrated employment. This is
not an exhaustive list, but serves as examples of some of the more
significant policy changes enacted by WIOA.

  Address the heightened emphasis on the provision of services to
students and youth with disabilities. RSA recommends that VR

agencies:

- • Revise formal interagency agreements with State educational
agencies and local educational agencies (if applicable) to
address coordination of the provision of pre-employment
transition services and the responsibilities of each agency in
providing or paying for transition services, including pre-
employment transition services;
- • Develop policies and procedures for coordinating with local
educational agencies, and other entities, the provision of pre-
employment transition services;
- • Develop or strengthen coordination of services to out-of-school
youth with disabilities in cooperation with non-educational

agencies and other entities, including employers, that serve
these youth;
- • Revise website information and other explanatory materials
describing the availability and provision of pre-employment
transition services to students with disabilities and transition
services to youth with disabilities;
- • Consult with other Federal, State, and local agencies to identify
best practices in the States for the provision of transition
services to students and youth with a variety of disabilities;
- • Develop and strengthen partnerships with relevant agencies,
providers and entities in order to coordinate and provide
transition services to groups of students and youth with
disabilities;

- • Account for the number of individuals who are and will be
provided pre-employment transition services in the Unified or
## Combined State Plans; and
- • Demonstrate which services and expenditures were provided
under which cost objective, such as pre-employment transition



7





---
## Page 8







services provided with reserved VR funds versus another VR
service provided with the remainder of VR funds.

  Expand partnerships with employers. To improve and enhance
employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities, VR
agencies should expand outreach activities to employers and
potential employers, including enhancing opportunities for work-
based learning experiences, such as internships and
apprenticeships, for individuals with disabilities.

  Prepare for fiscal and program changes. VR agencies should
assess their case management systems to determine their capacity
to document the services and funding levels now required under

the Rehabilitation Act, including the reservation of VR funds for
the provision of pre-employment transition services to students
with disabilities.

  Build new and strengthen existing partnerships. WIOA requires
## States and local areas to enhance coordination and partnerships,
including through the Unified or Combined State Plan, with local
entities and supportive service agencies for strengthened service
delivery. These plans should: include statutorily specified
additional partners in the planning process; establish a set of
common performance measures that apply to all core programs;
strengthen linkages between complementary programs, including
providing access to services within the one-stop center system; add
one-stop center partners, such as the Carl D. Perkins Career and
## Technical Education program at the secondary and postsecondary
level and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF)

program; and specify partner programs’ support for one-stop
system infrastructure costs and other shared costs.

  Develop plans to ensure workforce development boards become
## WIOA-compliant. State and local boards must meet WIOA’s new
membership requirements and be able to carry out new functions
as of July 1, 2015. The establishment of a WIOA-compliant State
## Workforce Development Board is critical to the transition to
requirements under WIOA, as the State Board plays a significant
role in overseeing transition activities, including the designation of
local workforce development areas, the identification of regions,
the development of criteria for local board appointments, and the
## State planning process. Chief elected officials should review the
new requirements in title I of WIOA and outlined in the DOL
guidance, TEGL No. 27-14, entitled Workforce Innovation and
## Opportunity Act Transition Authority for Immediate
## Implementation of Governance Provisions to reconstitute and


8





---
## Page 9







recertify boards. Additionally, as also noted in DOL TEGL No.
19-14, when establishing standing committees, States are strongly
encouraged to focus on serving youth, low-skilled adults,
## American Indians, individuals with disabilities, and other priority
groups in the local area.

  Engage with core programs and other partners to begin strategic
planning. DOL TEGL No. 27-14 also encourages local and State
leaders to engage in strategic planning and find new ways to align
core programs, optional programs under a Combined State Plan,
and required and optional one-stop partners under WIOA. It is
vital to understand the new Unified or Combined State Plan
requirements and to assess whether States have the right partners at

the table and are participating fully as equal partners in the design
and coordination of the programs and services within the
workforce development system. Strategic planning should include
concrete goals as well as a vision of success, i.e., how the
workforce development system should function in the State to best
meet WIOA’s goals. Local and State leaders are encouraged to
include State economic development staff and support alignment
of workforce and economic development goals.

  Develop transition plans. Transition to the requirements imposed
by WIOA, and reaching its vision, is complex and will require
substantial activities. We encourage States to develop transition
plans to facilitate and promote preparation and tracking of
transition and implementation progress. Additionally, transition
plans could be helpful to guide State implementation of WIOA
requirements, and identify possible impacts on program

participants affected by WIOA. The Departments will be
developing technical assistance tools to assist State VR agencies
and relevant core partners in this effort.

  Reassess one-stop delivery system. With other WIOA partners,
such as other core programs, optional programs, and required and
optional one-stop partners, VR agencies should reassess the one-
stop delivery system and what is needed to achieve seamless
service delivery models that place the individual, especially
individuals with disabilities, in the center of program design and
delivery. Consider operations, such as “bricks and mortar” and
information technology infrastructure, in light of new core and
required one-stop center partners. WIOA requires a memorandum
of understanding (MOU) between the local board and the one-stop
partners to address one-stop center infrastructure funding, physical
and programmatic accessibility requirements, and the vision of
## WIOA and State established goals, among other issues. Consider


9





---
## Page 10







how the VR program can partner with the one-stop centers to
ensure the one-stop centers are physically and programmatically
accessible to help individuals overcome barriers to becoming and
staying employed, to support applicable career development
services, such as initial assessment of skill levels through the one-
stop delivery system, as well as how individuals with disabilities,
especially VR-eligible individuals, will benefit from a more
integrated one-stop system. These actions will better position State
## VR agencies and local workforce development areas to develop the
## State’s plan for infrastructure funding and certification of one-stop
centers.

  Prepare for fiscal and program changes related to the transition

to the requirements of WIOA. ED has adopted the new Office of
## Management and Budget (OMB) Uniform Administrative
## Requirements (2 CFR 3474.1 and 2 CFR part 200) (Uniform
## Guidance). These requirements will be applicable to VR agency
grantees with their FY2016 grant awards. Financial staff and other
applicable staff must become familiar with the new requirements,
which govern such matters as standards for financial and program
management, procurement, and allowable costs.

## Timeframe of Anticipated Regulations, Guidance, & Technical
## Assistance

As noted above, on April 16, 2015, ED and DOL published in the Federal
## Register five NPRMs.

## The notices consisted of:


- •  An NPRM jointly published by ED and DOL proposing to
implement jointly-administered activities under title I of WIOA
regarding Unified and Combined State Plans, performance
accountability, and the one-stop system. This NPRM applies to all
core programs, including the VR and AEFLA programs.
- •  A DOL-only NPRM proposing to implement changes made to the
adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under title
## I of WIOA.
- •  An ED-only NPRM proposing to implement changes to programs
and activities authorized under AEFLA, which are contained in
title II of WIOA.
- •  Two ED-only NPRMs proposing to implement amendments to the
## Rehabilitation Act, which are contained in title IV of WIOA.

The 60-day public comment period for the NPRMs closed on June 15,
## 2015. ED and DOL will analyze these public comments as the


10





| As noted above, on April 16, 2015, ED and DOL published in the Federal |
| --- |
| Register five NPRMs. |



| The 60-day public comment period for the NPRMs closed on June 15, |
| --- |
| 2015. ED and DOL will analyze these public comments as the |



---
## Page 11







## Departments develop final rules. ED and DOL anticipate issuing final
rules in the spring of 2016.

To achieve successful implementation and the full intent of WIOA and
RSA’s vision for the VR program as a workforce development system
partner, RSA will continue to consult with VR agencies and other partners
in the workforce system. RSA strongly advises its State VR agencies to
begin planning and taking action to prepare to implement the requirements
of WIOA.


# SUMMARY:
## WIOA offers a unique opportunity to strengthen innovation in the

workforce development system, connects individuals who confront
barriers to employment to partner programs and resources, and supports
establishment of a VR program that addresses the needs of individuals
with disabilities, including youth and students with disabilities to achieve
their vocational goals. These goals will be best met in a State workforce
development system in which: services are aligned with State and local
needs; VR service goals and priorities are based on rigorous research and
promising models; and VR services are integrated with education and
training programs or coordinated with employers and social service
providers to promote career pathways.

## INQUIRIES:     Carol Dobak, Chief
## Vocational Rehabilitation Program Unit
- (202) 245-7325
carol.dobak@ed.gov




/s/
## Janet L. LaBreck
## Commissioner


cc: Council of State Administrators of Vocational Rehabilitation
## National Council of State Agencies for the Blind
## National Disability Rights Network









11





| Departments develop final rules. ED and DOL anticipate issuing final |
| --- |
| rules in the spring of 2016. |



| To achieve successful implementation and the full intent of WIOA and |
| --- |
| RSA’s vision for the VR program as a workforce development system |
| partner, RSA will continue to consult with VR agencies and other partners |
| in the workforce system. RSA strongly advises its State VR agencies to |
| begin planning and taking action to prepare to implement the requirements |
| of WIOA. |



| SUMMARY: |  |
| --- | --- |
|  | WIOA offers a unique opportunity to strengthen innovation in the |
|  | workforce development system, connects individuals who confront |
|  | barriers to employment to partner programs and resources, and supports |
|  | establishment of a VR program that addresses the needs of individuals |
|  | with disabilities, including youth and students with disabilities to achieve |
|  | their vocational goals. These goals will be best met in a State workforce |
|  | development system in which: services are aligned with State and local |
|  | needs; VR service goals and priorities are based on rigorous research and |



| training programs or coordinated with employers and social service |
| --- |
| providers to promote career pathways. |
