# tac-17-03







## UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
## OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES
## REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
# WASHINGTON, DC 20202-2800

# TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CIRCULAR
# RSA-TAC-17-03
## DATE: January 18, 2017

## ADDRESSEES:    STATE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION AGENCIES
# STATE REHABILITATION COUNCILS
# TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CENTERS
## AMERICAN INDIAN VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICE

# PROJECTS
# CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

## SUBJECT:       Infrastructure Funding of the One-Stop Delivery System

# PURPOSE:

This Technical Assistance Circular (TAC) provides guidance on the operating costs of the one-
stop delivery system, which are comprised of infrastructure costs and additional costs (i.e., career
services, shared operating costs, and shared services) in accordance with the requirements set
forth in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) and its implementing
regulations.

This guidance has been developed jointly by the U.S. Departments of Labor (DOL), Education
(ED), and Health and Human Services (HHS) (collectively, Departments). The Joint WIOA
Final Rule for Unified and Combined State Plans, Performance Accountability, and the One-Stop

System Joint Provisions; Final Rule (Joint WIOA Final Rule) was published in the Federal
Register on August 19, 2016 at 81 FR 55791, with an effective date of October 18, 2016.
Therefore, this guidance is based on the statutory requirements of WIOA and its final
implementing regulations.

The sharing and allocation of infrastructure costs among one-stop partners are governed by
WIOA sec. 121(h), its implementing regulations, and the Federal Cost Principles contained in the
Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal
Awards at 2 CFR part 200 (Uniform Guidance). All one-stop partner programs must contribute
to the infrastructure costs and certain additional costs of the one-stop delivery system based on
their proportionate use, as required by 20 CFR 678.700 and 678.760, 34 CFR 361.700 and
361.760, and 34 CFR 463.700 and 463.760. A partner’s contribution must be an allowable,
reasonable, necessary, and allocable cost to the program, consistent with the Federal Cost
## Principles set forth in the Uniform Guidance.

This joint policy guidance document focuses on how infrastructure and additional costs are

determined and paid for by one-stop partners in a local one-stop delivery system. This guidance







---
## Page 2







is applicable to required one-stop partners, as described in WIOA sec. 121(b)(1)(B) and 20 CFR
678.400, 34 CFR 361.400, and 34 CFR 463.400, as well as additional partners described in
WIOA sec. 121(b)(2)(B) and 20 CFR 678.410, 34 CFR 361.410, and 34 CFR 463.410. It
describes the roles of Governors, State and Local Workforce Development Boards (WDBs),
Chief Elected Officials (CEOs), and local one-stop partner programs in determining
infrastructure costs and navigating through the Local funding mechanism (LFM) and State
funding mechanism (SFM) for those infrastructure costs.

# TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:

## Background

Under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (WIA), costs that were shared among partners,

including infrastructure costs, were outlined and funded through Resource Sharing Agreements
between local boards and one-stop partners. The funding arrangements were incorporated into
the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). As a result of WIA, OMB directed DOL to develop
a uniform policy on acceptable methodologies for cost allocation and resource sharing with
respect to funding the one-stop delivery system. This uniform policy was contained in the
Resource Sharing for Workforce Investment Act One-Stop Centers: Methodologies for Paying or
Funding Each Partner Program’s Fair Share of Allocable One-Stop Costs; Notice, published in
the Federal Register on May 31, 2001 (66 FR 29638). These same concepts also were outlined in
Part I of the One-Stop Financial Management Technical Assistance Guide (TAG), which can be
found at https://www.doleta.gov/grants/resources.cfm. It is DOL’s expectation to update the
Technical Assistance Guide to reflect the requirements of WIOA, the Uniform Guidance, and
guidance set forth in this TAC in the near future.

DOL, in coordination with ED, has established the one-stop centers, with American Job Centers
- (AJCs) as a unifying name and brand that identifies the online and in-person workforce
development services as part of a single network (20 CFR 678.900, 34 CFR 361.900, and 34
# CFR 463.900).

Under WIOA and its implementing regulations, consistent with the Uniform Guidance, funding
provided by the one-stop partners to cover the operating costs, including infrastructure costs, of
the one-stop delivery system must be based on the partner program’s proportionate use of the

system and relative benefit received (WIOA sec. 121(h)(1)(B)(i) and 121(h)(2)(C)(i), 20 CFR
678.700 through 678.760, 34 CFR 361.700 through 361.760, and 34 CFR 463.700 through
463.760).

## One-Stop Operating Budgets and Costs

The operating budget of one-stop centers, or AJCs, is the financial plan to which the one-stop
partners, CEO(s), and Local WDB in each local area have agreed in the MOU that will be used
to achieve their goals of delivering services in a local area. The MOU must contain, among other
things, provisions describing how the costs of services provided by the one-stop system and how
the operating costs of such system will be funded, including the infrastructure costs for the one-
stop system (WIOA sec. 121(c)(2)(A) and 20 CFR 678.500(b), 34 CFR 361.500(b), and 34 CFR
463.500(b)).







---
## Page 3







The one-stop operating budget may be considered the master budget that contains a set of
individual budgets or components that consist of costs that are specifically identified in the
statute: infrastructure costs, defined in WIOA sec. 121(h)(4); and additional costs, which must
include applicable career services and may include shared operating costs and shared services
that are related to the operation of the one-stop delivery system but do not constitute
infrastructure costs. These additional costs are described in WIOA sec. 121(i).

The one-stop operating budget must be periodically reconciled against actual costs incurred and
adjusted accordingly. This reconciliation ensures that the budget reflects a cost allocation
methodology that demonstrates how infrastructure costs are charged to each partner in proportion
to the partner’s use of the one-stop center and relative benefit received. The one-stop operating
budget may be further refined by the one-stop partners, as needed, to assist in tracking their
contributions. It may be necessary at times to separate the budget of a comprehensive one-stop
center from a specialized one-stop center or an affiliate one-stop center.

Attachment IV: One-Stop Operating Costs provides a diagram illustrating the organization of
one-stop operating costs. One-stop operating costs include infrastructure costs and additional

costs, which are made up of applicable career services, and may include shared operating costs,
and shared services, as described below.

## Infrastructure Costs

Infrastructure costs of AJCs are defined as non-personnel costs that are necessary for the general
operation of the one-stop center, including: rental of the facilities; utilities and maintenance;
equipment (including assessment-related and assistive technology for individuals with
disabilities); and technology to facilitate access to the one-stop center, including technology used
for the center’s planning and outreach activities (WIOA sec. 121(h)(4), 20 CFR 678.700(a), 34
CFR 361.700(a), and 34 CFR 463.700(a)). This list is not exhaustive. For example, the costs
associated with the development and use of the common identifier (i.e., AJC signage) and
supplies, as defined in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR 200.94, used to support the general
operation of the one-stop center, may be considered allowable infrastructure costs.

Non-personnel costs: Non-personnel costs are all costs that are not compensation for
personal services. For example, technology-related services performed by vendors or
contractors are non-personnel costs and may be identified as infrastructure costs if they
are necessary for the general operation of the one-stop center. Such costs may include
service contracts with vendors or contractors, equipment, and supplies.

Personnel costs: In contrast to non-personnel costs for the one-stop system, personnel
costs include salaries, wages, and fringe benefits of the employees of partner programs or

their subrecipients, as described in 2 CFR 200.430 (Compensation – personal services)
and 2 CFR 200.431 (Compensation – fringe benefits) of the Uniform Guidance. For
example, allocable salary and fringe benefit costs of partner program staff who work on
information technology systems (e.g., common performance and reporting outcomes) for
use by the one-stop center as a whole would be personnel costs and would be identified
as additional costs – not infrastructure costs. The cost of a shared welcome desk or
greeter directing employers and customers to the services or staff that are available in that







---
## Page 4







one-stop center is a personnel expense. These costs, therefore, could not be included in
infrastructure costs but are included as “additional costs” in the one-stop operating
budget.

## Additional Costs

One-stop partners must share in additional costs, which must include applicable career services,
and may include shared operating costs and shared services that are necessary for the general
operation of the one-stop center.

Career Services: One-stop partners must ensure that at least some career services,
described in WIOA sec. 134(c)(2), are provided at the one-stop center. Additional
requirements regarding career services may be found at WIOA sec. 121(b)(1)(A)(i),

(c)(2)(A)(ii), (e)(1)(A), and (i)(1), 20 CFR 678.760, 34 CFR 361.760, and 34 CFR
463.760. Please also see a detailed discussion about the provision of career services at the
one-stop centers in the General Guidance for the American Job Center Network in the
Operation of One-Stop Centers, issued jointly by DOL and ED, via DOL’s TEGL, ED’s
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education’s Program Memorandum, and ED’s
## Rehabilitation Services Administration’s Technical Assistance Circular.

Shared Operating Costs and Shared Services: One-stop partners also may share other
costs that support the operations of the one-stop centers, as well as the costs of shared
services. The costs of shared services may include initial intake, assessment of needs,
appraisal of basic skills, identification of appropriate services to meet such needs,
referrals to other one-stop partners, and business services (WIOA sec. 121(i)(2), 20 CFR
678.760, 34 CFR 361.760, and 34 CFR 463.760). As discussed in more detail in the
section pertaining to personnel costs above, such costs also may include personnel
expenses associated with a shared welcome desk or greeter directing employers and
customers to the services or staff that are available in that one-stop center.


A portion of the costs of Local WDB staff who perform functions that are not otherwise paid
with WIOA title I funds and support the general operations of the one-stop centers may also be
included as additional costs. An example of such shared operating costs would be a Local WDB
staff person acting as the office manager in a one-stop center. As with any additional costs paid
by partner programs for the operations of the one-stop delivery system, these shared operating
costs must be proportionate to the use of the partner program and consistent with the Federal
Cost Principles of the Uniform Guidance set forth in 2 CFR part 200.

## One-Stop Partners

One-stop partners1 are the entities that carry out the program in a local area. The one-stop


1 20 CFR 678.415 What entity serves as the one-stop partner for a particular program in the local area?
- (a) The entity that carries out the program and activities listed in 678.400 or 678.410, and therefore serves as the
one-stop partner, is the grant recipient, administrative entity, or organization responsible for administering the funds
of the specified program in the local area. The term ‘‘entity’’ does not include the service providers that contract
with, or are subrecipients of, the local administrative entity. For programs that do not include local administrative






---
## Page 5







delivery system, as identified in 20 CFR 678.300, 34 CFR 361.300, and 34 CFR 463.300, must
include comprehensive one-stop centers, and also may include affiliate one-stop centers or
specialized one-stop centers. Required partner programs and additional partners that carry out
their program in the local area are required to share infrastructure costs and certain additional
costs (20 CFR 678.700(c), 678.415, and 678.420(b), 34 CFR 361.700(c), 361.415, and
361.420(b), and 34 CFR 463.700(c), 463.415, and 463.420(b)). All one-stop partners, whether
they are required partners or additional partners, must contribute to infrastructure costs of the
one-stop centers based on proportionate use and relative benefits received. The required one-
stop partners must provide access to their programs in the comprehensive centers and contribute
to the infrastructure costs of those centers. These partners also make available each partner
program’s applicable career services at the comprehensive one-stop centers and may contribute
to shared services and shared operating costs.


Only those one-stop partners that participate in the affiliate one-stop centers would be required to
contribute to the infrastructure costs for those centers, including in one-stop affiliate centers
where “access” to program, services, and activities are made available through a direct linkage or
physical presence. When two or more grant recipients or contractors of a required partner
program are carrying out the program in a local area, both of these entities must contribute to
infrastructure costs, including at an affiliate center, if those partners are participating in that
affiliate center. The financial contributions of one-stop partners through a direct linkage will be
different than those one-stop partners with a physical presence, regardless of the type of center.
A list of the partner programs may be found in Attachment III: Infrastructure Costs: Funding
## Sources.





entities, the responsible State agency must be the partner. Specific entities for particular programs are identified in
paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. If a program or activity listed in 678.400 is not carried out in a local area,
the requirements relating to a required one-stop partner are not applicable to such program or activity in that local
one-stop delivery system.
- (b) For title II of WIOA, the entity or agency that carries out the program for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this
section is the sole entity or agency in the State or outlying area responsible for administering or supervising policy
for adult education and literacy activities in the State or outlying area. The State eligible entity or agency may
delegate its responsibilities under paragraph (a) of this section to one or more eligible providers or consortium of
eligible providers.
- (c) For the VR program, authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV,
the entity that carries out the program for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section is the designated State
agencies or designated State units specified under sec. 101(a)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act that is primarily
concerned with vocational rehabilitation, or vocational and other rehabilitation, of individuals with disabilities.
- (d) Under WIOA title I, the national programs, including Job Corps, the Native American program, YouthBuild, and
Migrant and Seasonal Farmworker programs are required one-stop partners. The entity for the Native American
program, YouthBuild, and Migrant and Seasonal Farmworker programs is the grantee of those respective programs.
## The entity for Job Corps is the Job Corps center.
- (e) For the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, the entity that carries out the program for
the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section is the eligible recipient or recipients at the postsecondary level, or a
consortium of eligible recipients at the postsecondary level in the local area. The eligible recipient at the
postsecondary level may also request assistance from the State eligible agency in completing its responsibilities
under paragraph (a) of this section. (See also 34 CFR 361.415 and 34 CFR 463.415.)





---
## Page 6







## Required Partners

WIOA sec. 121(b)(1)(B), 20 CFR 678.400, 34 CFR 361.400, and 34 CFR 463.400 require the
following programs to be one-stop partners:

## Department of Labor (DOL)
## A. WIOA title I programs:
## Adult, Dislocated Worker, and Youth formula programs;
## Job Corps;
## YouthBuild;
## Native American programs;
## National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP);
## B. Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service (ES) program, authorized under the

Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.), as amended by WIOA title III;
- C. Senior Community Service Employment Program (SCSEP), authorized under title V
of the Older Americans Act of 1965;
- D. Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) activities, authorized under chapter 2 of title II
of the Trade Act of 1974;
## E. Unemployment Compensation (UC) programs;
- F. Jobs for Veterans State Grants (JVSG) programs, authorized under chapter 41of title
38, U.S.C.; and
## G. Reentry Employment Opportunities (REO) programs (formerly known as
Reintegration of Ex-Offenders Program (RExO)), authorized under sec. 212 of the
Second Chance Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17532) and WIOA sec. 169;

## Department of Education (ED)
- H. Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (AEFLA) program, authorized under WIOA
title II;
- I. Career and technical education programs at the postsecondary level, authorized under

the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (Perkins IV); and
- J. The State Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) Services program, authorized under title I of
the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 720 et seq.), as amended by WIOA title IV;

## Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
## K. Employment and training programs;

## Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
- L. Employment and training activities carried out under the Community Services Block
## Grant (CSBG) programs (42 U.S.C. 9901 et seq.); and
- M. Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program, authorized under part A
of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), unless exempted by the
Governor under 20 CFR 678.405(b), 34 CFR 361.405(b), and 34 CFR 463.405(b).

## Additional Partners


Pursuant to WIOA sec. 121(b)(2)(B) and 20 CFR 678.410, 34 CFR 361.410, and 34 CFR







---
## Page 7







463.410, additional one-stop partners may include, with the approval of the Local WDB and
## CEO(s), the following:

- • Social Security Administration (SSA) employment and training program established
under sec. 1148 of the Social Security Act (i.e. Ticket to Work and Self Sufficiency
programs);
- • Small Business Administration employment and training programs;
- • Supplemental Nutrition and Assistance Program (SNAP) employment and training
programs, authorized under secs. 6(d)(4) and 6(o) of the Food and Nutrition Act of

2008;
- • Client Assistance Program (CAP), authorized under sec. 112 of the Rehabilitation Act
of 1973, as amended by title IV of WIOA;
- • National and Community Service Act programs; and
- • Other appropriate Federal, State, or local programs, including, but not limited to,
employment, education, or training programs such as those operated by libraries or in
the private sector (WIOA sec. 121(b)(2)). Such programs may also include programs
providing transportation assistance and services for those with substance abuse or
mental health issues.

The Local WDBs and CEOs have discretion to take the actions necessary to encourage the
additional partners to contribute their proportionate share of infrastructure costs. This discretion
does not include the ability to subject the additional partners to the SFM, nor can additional
partners trigger the SFM, as described later in this guidance.


The Departments strongly encourage Registered Apprenticeship programs to participate
as additional one-stop partners. The mutual benefits include coordination in the provision
of comprehensive services to participants and the potential enhancement of outreach and
follow-up activities. WIOA requires that Registered Apprenticeship programs are to have
a representative on the Local WDB, and also states that Registered Apprenticeship
programs are automatically eligible to provide training services. These connections
would be significantly strengthened through such programs serving as one-stop partners
and otherwise working with the one-stop delivery system.

## Special Rules

As required one-stop partners, Native American programs (described in WIOA sec. 166) are
strongly encouraged to contribute to infrastructure costs, but they are not required to make such
contributions under WIOA. Any agreement regarding the contribution or non-contribution to
infrastructure costs by Native American programs must be documented in the MOU (WIOA sec.

121(h)(2)(D)(iv); see also 81 FR 55911-55912 of the preamble to the Joint WIOA Final Rule).
Further, these contributions must be based on the programs’ proportionate use and relative
benefits received, consistent with the Uniform Guidance. The lack of agreement on infrastructure
costs with Native American programs does not trigger the SFM for the local area, and the Native
American programs are not subject to the SFM in the event it is triggered.

The Governor may determine that TANF will not be a required partner in the State, or within







---
## Page 8







some specific local areas in the State. In this instance, the Governor must notify the Secretary of
Labor and Secretary of Health and Human Services in writing of this determination (WIOA sec.
121(b)(1)(C) and 20 CFR 678.405, 34 CFR 361.405, and 34 CFR 463.405). In States, or local
areas within a State, where the Governor has determined that TANF is not required to be a
partner, local TANF programs may still work in collaboration or partnership with the local one-
stop centers to deliver employment and training services to the TANF population, unless
inconsistent with the Governor’s direction. In these situations, TANF may be considered an
additional partner for purposes of contributing to the costs of operating the one-stop system.

## Partner Programs with Multiple Grant Recipients

Partner programs and additional partners that carry out a program in the local area are required to
share infrastructure costs and certain additional costs (20 CFR 678.700(c), 34 CFR 361.700(c),

and 34 CFR 463.700(c)). When two or more grant recipients or contractors of a required partner
program carry out a program in a local area, these entities are considered one-stop partners and
must reach out to the Local WDB and carry out the roles and responsibilities of one-stop
partners, including negotiating their share of infrastructure costs. For instance, there may be
multiple YouthBuild and SCSEP grant recipients along with a few Job Corps contractors in a
local area. In this situation, each grant or contract recipient carrying out the program in that local
area must contribute towards infrastructure costs, and those contributions must be based on the
proportionate use and relative benefits received by those partners from the one-stop centers.

## Funding Types and Sources

The permissible types of funds used for infrastructure costs and the additional costs of operating
a local one-stop delivery system (i.e., a partner’s program or administrative funds) may differ
depending upon the partner program’s authorizing law and implementing regulations. The funds
that may be used also differ based on whether the amount that must be contributed by a partner
for infrastructure costs is determined under the LFM or the SFM. The funding types and sources

permissible for the one-stop partners are outlined in Attachment II: Paying for the One-Stop
## Delivery System.

## Types and Sources

Funding for infrastructure costs and additional costs, such as shared costs and shared services,
may be in the form of: (1) cash, non-cash, and third-party in-kind contributions; (2) funding from
philanthropic organizations or other private entities; or (3) other alternative financing options, as
described in WIOA sec. 121(c)(2)(A)(ii) and 20 CFR 678.715, 34 CFR 361.715, and 34 CFR
463.715. Some partner programs may have statutory or regulatory prohibitions against using
certain types of these contributions or on how the program may treat these contributions for
fiscal accountability purposes under the respective program’s requirements. For example,
pursuant to 34 CFR 361.60(b)(2), a VR agency may not use third-party in-kind contributions for
match purposes under the VR program. However, there is nothing in 34 CFR 361.60 that
prohibits a VR agency from using third-party in-kind contributions to pay for its share of the
one-stop operating costs, including infrastructure costs.









---
## Page 9







The source of funds that may be used to pay for infrastructure costs depends on the requirements
regarding the use of funds under the law authorizing the partner program that is contributing the
funding. The infrastructure funding may be from funds classified as administrative, program, or
both, depending on the partner program’s requirements. Below are the one-stop partners and the
source of funds expected to be used. The partner programs required to make a contribution
towards infrastructure costs and the applicable funding sources are illustrated in Attachment III:
## Infrastructure Costs: Funding Sources.

## Local and State Funding Mechanisms – Types and Sources

(20 CFR 678.720 and 678.740; 34 CFR 361.720 and 361.740; and 34 CFR 463.720 and 463.740)

- • WIOA title I programs, including the Adult, Dislocated Worker, and Youth programs;

## Native American programs, YouthBuild, Job Corps programs, and MSFW programs
– Program funds, administrative funds, or both may be used for LFM and SFM.
- • SCSEP, TAA programs, REO programs – Program funds, administrative funds, or
both may be used to pay for infrastructure costs under the LFM and SFM.
- • Wagner-Peyser Act ES, JVSG, and Unemployment Compensation programs – These
programs do not distinguish between program and administrative funds. Therefore,
any of the funds allotted for these programs may be used to pay for infrastructure
costs under the LFM and SFM.
- • AEFLA – Infrastructure costs under the LFM and SFM are to be paid from Federal
funds made available for local administration (WIOA sec. 233(a)(2) and 34 CFR
463.25 and 463.26(e)). Non-Federal resources that are cash, non-cash, or third-party
in-kind contributions may also be used. The Federal funds available for activities

other than local administration may not be used for such costs. For the SFM, other
funds made available by the State may be used.
- • VR program – This program does not distinguish between program and
administrative funds. Non-Federal resources that are cash, non-cash, or third-party in-
kind contributions may also be used under the LFM and SFM. The VR regulations at
## 34 CFR 361.5(c)(2)(viii) clarify that one-stop system infrastructure costs are
allowable administrative costs under the VR program. Therefore, although the VR
program imposes no limits on the amount of funds that may be spent on
administrative costs, VR agencies must report funds spent for infrastructure costs as
administrative costs. Furthermore, as stated above, VR agencies may not count third-
party in-kind contributions toward meeting their match requirement under the VR
program when such contributions are used for one-stop operating costs.
- • Perkins IV – For the LFM, Federal funds made available for local administration may
be used to pay infrastructure costs. Non-Federal resources that are cash, non-cash, or

third-party in-kind contributions, and other funds made available by the State may
also be used to pay infrastructure costs. Under the SFM, Federal funds made available
for local administration of postsecondary level programs and activities to eligible
recipients or consortia of eligible recipients may be used to pay infrastructure costs.
Additionally, funds made available by the State or non-Federal resources that are
cash, non-cash, or third-party in-kind contributions, and other funds made available
by the State may be used to contribute to infrastructure costs.







---
## Page 10







- • Other required partners including HUD employment and training programs, CSBG
programs, and TANF – These partner programs may determine what funds they will
use to pay for infrastructure costs under the LFM. The use of these funds must be in
accordance with the requirements of WIOA and with the relevant partner’s
authorizing statutes and regulations, including, for example, prohibitions against
supplanting non-Federal resources, statutory limitations on administrative costs, and
all other applicable legal requirements. For the SFM, only administrative funds for
these other required partner programs may be used to pay infrastructure costs.
- • Additional Partners – For the LFM, these partners must consult their program’s
requirements and/or statute or authorizing documents/regulations to determine the
type and source of funds that may be used. The SFM does not apply to the additional

partners.

The funds one-stop partners use to pay the additional costs of a one-stop delivery system must
be consistent with WIOA and its implementing regulations governing that particular program (20
CFR 678.760, 34 CFR 361.760, and 34 CFR 463.760). The determination of contributions for
additional costs is not subject to the SFM.

## Uniform Guidance: Federal Cost Principles

Any cost paid for with Federal grant funds must comply with Subpart E, Federal Cost Principles
of the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200. The Federal Cost Principles, applicable to one-stop
partners that are Federally-funded, provide general guidance to be used in developing cost
allocation methodologies and in determining if contributions towards infrastructure costs and
additional costs are necessary, reasonable, and allocable to their program based upon relative
benefits received. Additionally, all costs must be allowable under, and allocable to, that partner
program in accordance with the program’s authorizing statute and implementing regulations. In

addition, WIOA requires one-stop partners to contribute funding to establish and maintain the
one-stop delivery system based on each partner’s proportionate use of the system and the relative
benefits received (WIOA sec. 121(h)(1)(B)(i) and 121(h)(2)(C); 20 CFR 678.420(b), 34 CFR
361.420(b), and 34 CFR 463.420(b)). One-stop partners must use a reasonable cost allocation
methodology in determining appropriate partner contributions based on proportionate use and
relative benefits received (20 CFR 678.420(b)(2)(i), 34 CFR 361.420(b)(2)(i), and 34 CFR
463.420(b)(2)(i)).

## Proportionate Use

For the purpose of this joint policy guidance, “proportionate use” refers to a partner program
contributing its fair share of the costs proportionate to: (1) the use of the one-stop center by
customers that may include reportable individuals and participants in its program at that one-stop
center; (2) the amount of square footage occupied by the partner program in the one-stop center;
or (3) another allocation base consistent with the Uniform Guidance.


## Relative Benefit

In determining the proportionate share, the “relative benefit” received from participating in the







---
## Page 11







one-stop delivery system is another step in the cost allocation process. Determining relative
benefit does not require partners to conduct an exact or absolute measurement of benefit, but
instead to measure a partner’s benefit using reasonable methods. The Uniform Guidance, at 2
CFR 200.4, requires that the process of assigning a cost or group of costs to one or more cost
objectives must be in reasonable proportion to the benefit provided. The measurement of a one-
stop partner’s share of infrastructure costs must be based on reasonable methods that are agreed
to by all partners or determined in accordance with the SFM. However, as discussed later in this
guidance, partner contributions that are initially based on budgeted amounts must be reviewed
and reconciled periodically during the program year against actual costs incurred. Additionally,
adjustments must be made to ensure that partner contributions are proportionate to their use of
the one-stop center and relative benefits received as required by 20 CFR 678.715(a)(4), 34 CFR
361.715(a)(4), and 34 CFR 463.715(a)(4).


## Allocation of Costs

Cost allocation is based upon the premise that Federal programs are to bear an equitable
proportion of shared costs based on the benefit received by each program. The allocation of costs
must be consistent with the Uniform Guidance. The Uniform Guidance defines “allocation” at 2
## CFR 200.42 and “allocable costs” at 2 CFR 200.4053.



2 2 CFR 200.4 Allocation.
Allocation means the process of assigning a cost, or a group of costs, to one or more cost objective(s), in
reasonable proportion to the benefit provided or other equitable relationship. The process may entail assigning a
cost(s) directly to a final cost objective or through one or more intermediate cost objectives.
3 2 CFR 200.405 Allocable costs.
- (a) A cost is allocable to a particular Federal award or other cost objective if the goods or services involved are
chargeable or assignable to that Federal award or cost objective in accordance with relative benefits received.
## This standard is met if the cost:
- (1) Is incurred specifically for the Federal award;
- (2) Benefits both the Federal award and other work of the non-Federal entity and can be distributed in
proportions that may be approximated using reasonable methods; and
- (3) Is necessary to the overall operation of the non-Federal entity and is assignable in part to the Federal
award in accordance with the principles in this subpart.
- (b) All activities which benefit from the non-Federal entity's indirect (F&A) cost, including unallowable activities
and donated services by the non-Federal entity or third parties, will receive an appropriate allocation of
indirect costs.
- (c) Any cost allocable to a particular Federal award under the principles provided for in this part may not be
charged to other Federal awards to overcome fund deficiencies, to avoid restrictions imposed by Federal
statutes, regulations, or terms and conditions of the Federal awards, or
- (d) Direct cost allocation principles. If a cost benefits two or more projects or activities in proportions that can be
determined without undue effort or cost, the cost must be allocated to the projects based on the proportional
benefit. If a cost benefits two or more projects or activities in proportions that cannot be determined because of
the interrelationship of the work involved, then, notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section, the costs may be
allocated or transferred to benefitted projects on any reasonable documented basis. Where the purchase of
equipment or other capital asset is specifically authorized under a Federal award, the costs are assignable to the
Federal award regardless of the use that may be made of the equipment or other capital asset involved when no
longer needed for the purpose for which it was originally required. See also2 CFR §200.310 Insurance
coverage through 200.316 Property trust relationship and 200.439 Equipment and other capital expenditures.





---
## Page 12







## Allocation Methodologies

The specific methodologies used to allocate costs among the one-stop partners are not prescribed
in WIOA, its implementing regulations, the Uniform Guidance, or in this joint policy guidance.
Each local one-stop delivery system is unique and presents a different set of circumstances
within which costs are allocated. Rather, when developing the local MOU, Local WDBs and
partner agencies may choose from any number of methods, provided they are consistent with
WIOA, its implementing regulations, and the Uniform Guidance, including the Federal Cost
Principles. In selecting methodologies used to allocate costs, Local WDBs and one-stop partners
may also consider whether it is necessary to allocate costs by each one-stop center separately.
For instance, the budget for operating an affiliate one-stop center may be less than the operating
budget for a comprehensive one-stop center because the affiliate one-stop center includes one or
more, but not all, one-stop partner programs.


In this preliminary stage, the partners: (1) determine the infrastructure costs budget and the
budget(s) for additional costs, which must include career services and may include shared
services and shared operating costs for a particular comprehensive one-stop center; (2) determine
which methodologies are reasonable and acceptable; and, (3) from the acceptable methodologies,
select the methodology (or methodologies) that will be applied to the different cost categories.
In other words, the partners are selecting the appropriate distribution base(s) under which they
allocate infrastructure and additional costs. Partner programs may agree to select different cost
allocation methodologies and allocation or distribution bases for cost objectives within
infrastructure costs and additional costs, such as applicable career services, shared operating
costs, and shared services categories. Partners should focus on identifying methodologies that
most effectively allocate costs based upon proportionate use and relative benefits received by the
partners.

The negotiations of cost sharing and allocation among partners must be conducted in good faith
and in an open and transparent environment, where full disclosure of costs and funding is

essential to this process. Because of the need to provide maximum flexibility to accommodate
various organization structures, costs, and budgets in local areas, there is no single method
prescribed for allocating costs.

In selecting a method to allocate infrastructure and additional costs, consider the additional effort
and expense required to achieve a greater degree of accuracy. General criteria that should be
used in selecting an allocation base include the following:

## Allocation Bases

When costs cannot be directly assigned to a final cost objective, the costs are placed in a pool
that will be allocated at a later time to the benefiting partner programs. A cost pool contains a
group of common costs to be allocated by using an indirect or approximate measure of benefit.
The approximate measure of benefit is the allocation base. An allocation base is the method of
documentation used to measure the extent of benefits received when allocating joint costs among
multiple cost objectives. Many different types of bases can be used in allocating costs. The most

appropriate base will vary depending on the circumstances. One-stop partner programs may







---
## Page 13







agree to use several different bases for allocating different types of costs in the one-stop center.
A local area may allocate costs differently among one-stop centers in that local area. Acceptable
methods for distributing pooled costs may vary by type of organization, functional units, or
levels within an organization, types of cost to be allocated, and cost category. The basis used to
allocate a particular type of cost must be used consistently over time (2 CFR 200.403(d)).
- • Inputs: The Departments consider inputs – the most commonly used allocation bases
– to be the resources used in a process, activity, or service. Using inputs, the cost is
allocated at the same time it is incurred and the usage must be documented.
Examples of input bases include: (1) staff time allocated on the basis of time sheets
and time distribution records; (2) facilities allocated on the basis of square footage;
- (3) accounting services allocated on the basis of transactions; and (4) equipment or
supplies allocated based on usage.

- • Outputs: The Departments consider outputs to be the results of an activity or service.
## Examples of output allocation bases include: (1) participants and reportable
individuals under a specific program; (2) number of customers who are obtaining
employment after self-directed job search; and (3) number of customers receiving a
specific career service. One of the issues associated with output-based allocations is
that they will vary over time, usually based on client flow. For this reason, output-
based allocations may result in large changes in the resources needed to fund the
pooled costs when the budgets are adjusted to actual costs and, therefore, should be
used with caution.

An allocation base is acceptable if it represents a fair measure of cost benefit and if it results in
an equitable and reasonable distribution of the costs of services rendered or goods provided.
Each base should be considered on its own merits as to the purpose for using it and the degree of
equity and reasonableness it will achieve in allocating infrastructure or additional costs. The
## Departments consider the following to be standards for acceptable bases:

- • Minimal Distortion: The base should allocate costs in a fair and equitable manner
without distorting the results. This requires that the base be as causally related as
possible to the types of costs being allocated, so that benefit can be measured as
accurately as possible. For example, building costs may be allocated based on square
footage used by a partner program.
- • General Acceptability: Consistent with 2 CFR 200.403(e), the base should be
generally accepted and in conformance with Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP). For example, the base should be consistently applied over time.
The base should also be drawn from the same period during which the costs have
been incurred and allocated.
- • Represents Actual Cost or Effort Expended: The base should be a measure of
actual cost or actual effort expended. It should be based on historical data and not
solely on a plan, projection, budget, job description, or other estimates of planned
activity. This means that partner contributions determined from allocation
methodologies based originally on a budget must be reconciled periodically to actual
costs to ensure the contribution is reflective of relative benefits received by the

partner over time.
- • Timely Management Control: The base should be within management’s ability to
control on a timely basis. The base should produce reliable and fairly predictable







---
## Page 14







results. If the base is erratic and unpredictable, beyond management’s ability to
control, or not timely, it is likely to produce unacceptable results. For example, if time
studies are used, but do not accurately reflect seasonal or workload fluctuations, such
a base may not be suitable in allocating costs.
- • Consistency with Variations in Funding: The base must be able to accommodate
and withstand changes in funding during the year and from year to year. If the base
includes factors that are affected by variations in funding, it could produce distorted
results.
- • Materiality of Costs Involved: The time and expense spent in developing and
implementing the base should not be greater than justified by the materiality of the
costs to be allocated. In other words, the grantee should not spend more on obtaining
the information needed to allocate pooled costs than the dollars in the pool warrant.
The base should be sufficiently detailed to provide the most equitable and accurate

allocation possible. At the same time, the base should be simple enough to be
efficient while still attaining a fair distribution of costs.
- • Practicality and Cost of Using the Base: The base should be as efficient as possible
in terms of the cost or effort in developing it. Thus, wherever possible, a database that
already exists in the financial or participant record keeping and reporting systems
should be used rather than creating a separate database to be used only for allocating
costs.

## Additional examples of common cost pools and allocation bases are described in Attachment I:
## Examples of Cost Pools and Possible Allocation Bases.

## Valuation

Contributions for infrastructure and additional costs may be made from cash, non-cash, or third-
party in-kind contributions. Non-cash and third-party in-kind contributions must be fairly
evaluated in accordance with the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR 200.306, and must be in the agreed

upon one-stop operating budget that must contain an infrastructure cost budget and an additional
costs budget. All partner contributions, regardless of the source, must be reconciled and adjusted
accordingly on a regular basis (i.e., monthly or quarterly) to ensure each partner program is
contributing no more than its proportionate share based upon relative benefits received in
accordance with the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200. To ensure that non-cash and third-
party in-kind contributions are fairly evaluated, one-stop partners should agree on which sources
or companies they use to assess or appraise the fair market value or fair rental value of non-cash
and third-party in-kind contributions.

## Cash contributions

Cash contributions are cash funds provided to the Local WDB or its designee by one-stop
partners, either directly or by an interagency transfer, or by a third party.

## Non-cash contributions

Non-cash contributions are expenditures incurred by one-stop partners on behalf of the one-stop
center and goods or services contributed by a partner program and used by the one-stop center.







---
## Page 15







The value of non-cash contributions must be consistent with 2 CFR 200.306 and reconciled on a
regular basis (i.e., monthly or quarterly) to ensure they are fairly evaluated and meet the partners’
proportionate share.

Example 1: For Program Year (PY) 2017, a partner’s proportionate use of the one-stop
center results in a contribution of $15,000. The partner does not have sufficient cash
resources to fully fund its share and wishes to donate to the one-stop center (not for its
own individual use) gently used surplus office furniture. The furniture is needed in the
one-stop center. The office furniture was purchased in 2015 for $18,500 using
unrestricted or non-Federal funds. The office furniture has a current fair market value of
$10,000 and a depreciated value of $11,100. In accordance with the requirements
specified in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR 200.306(d), the value of the contribution
must be the lesser of the current fair market value or the value of the remaining life of the
property as recorded in the partner’s accounting records at the time of donation, unless
approval has been granted in accordance with 2 CFR 200.306(d)(2). The partner would

be able to count the $10,000 value as part of its $15,000 contribution and would be
required to use additional resources for the remaining $5,000 balance of its share. This
one-time contribution is recognized by the partner during the year in which the
contribution is made.

Example 2: In the same example as above, the partner does not donate the gently used
office furniture, but loans it for general use by partners at the one-stop center. The office
furniture is on a 5-year depreciation schedule. The annual depreciation is $3,700 and the
annual fair rental value is $3,500. In accordance with 2 CFR 200.306(i)(4), the partner
may count $3,500 as part of its contribution for that year. As with any depreciable asset,
an assessment of its fair rental value must be done each year in which the equipment is
loaned to the one-stop center. The one-stop partners must determine annually whether the
one-stop center still requires the use of the office furniture and that this cost is built into
the infrastructure funding agreement (IFA).

## Third-party in-kind contributions

Third-party in-kind contributions are contributions of space, equipment, technology, non-
personnel services, or other like items by a non-partner (i.e., a third-party) to support the
infrastructure costs associated with one-stop operations. The value of third-party in-kind
contributions must also be consistent with the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR 200.306 and

reconciled on a regular basis (i.e., monthly or quarterly) to ensure they are fairly evaluated and, if
contributed on behalf of a particular program partner, meet the partner’s proportionate share.

There are two types of third-party in-kind contributions: (a) general contributions to one-stop
operations (i.e., those not connected to any individual one-stop partner); and (b) those made
specifically to a one-stop partner program (20 CFR 678.715, 34 CFR 361.715, 34 CFR 463.715,
and 2 CFR 200.306).

Example 1: For PY 2017, a local county government that is not a one-stop partner has a
vacant building and would like to donate the space for use as a one-stop center. This in-
kind contribution would not be associated with one specific partner, but rather would go







---
## Page 16







to support the one-stop center generally and would be factored into the underlying budget
and cost pools used to determine proportionate share of the partners, meaning that each
partner’s proportionate share may be lower. The valuation of donated space by a third
party must adhere to the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR 200.306(i)(3). The annual fair
rental value of comparable space in the same locality, as established by an independent
appraisal is $77,000. As with all non-cash and third-party in-kind contributions, the value
at which the space has been appraised is the amount accounted for in the infrastructure
budget. The partners may use this donation of space as an offset towards the entire budget
for infrastructure, thus reducing the partners’ individual contributions. The valuation of
the donated space must be assessed again each subsequent year.

The second type of in-kind contribution is a third-party contribution to a specific partner to
support that partner’s proportionate share of one-stop infrastructure costs. If the contribution was

in the one-stop center’s budget for infrastructure costs, the partner could then use the value of the
third-party in-kind contribution to count towards its proportionate share.

Example 2: An employer provides assistive technology equipment to a VR program
located in a one-stop center. The acquisition cost at the time of purchase by the employer
was $6,800, and at the time of the donation, the fair market value was assessed as $4,500.
If the assistive technology equipment was in the one-stop center’s budget for
infrastructure costs, the partner could use the fair market value of the donation towards its
contribution. The Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR 200.306(g) requires that the equipment be
valued at no more than the fair market value ($4,500) at the time of donation.

Example 3: A local literacy foundation wants to donate gently used computer equipment
to the local one-stop center to support the infrastructure cost contribution of the
designated AEFLA partner program in the local community. Computer equipment is part
of the one-stop operating budget. The fair market value of the computer equipment is
valued at $9,200 at the time of donation. The AEFLA partner program’s proportionate

use of the one-stop center is determined to be $12,500. The AEFLA partner program may
use the fair market value of this equipment towards its infrastructure cost contribution for
that program year. Furthermore, the AEFLA partner program is required to contribute an
additional $3,300 in resources to pay its remaining share.

## Infrastructure Funding Agreements (IFA)

The IFA contains the infrastructure costs budget, which is an integral component of the overall
one-stop operating budget. The other component of the one-stop operating budget consists of
additional costs, which include applicable career services, and may include shared operating
costs and shared services. While each of these components covers different cost categories, an
operating budget would be incomplete if any of these cost categories were omitted, as all
components are necessary to maintain a fully functioning and successful local one-stop delivery
system. Therefore, the Departments strongly recommend that the Local WDBs, one-stop
partners, and CEOs negotiate the IFA, along with additional costs, when developing the
operating budget for the local one-stop delivery system. The overall one-stop operating budget

must be included in the MOU. IFAs are a mandatory component of the local MOU, described in







---
## Page 17







WIOA sec. 121(c) and 20 CFR 678.500 and 678.755, 34 CFR 361.500 and 361.755, and 34 CFR
463.500 and 463.755. Similar to MOUs, the Local WDB may negotiate an umbrella IFA or
individual IFAs for one or more of its one-stop centers.

As provided in section 14 of this guidance document, through DOL’s use of the transition
authority in section 503(b) of WIOA, a local area’s PY 2017 final IFA must be in place no later
than January 1, 2018, or by an earlier date specified by the Governor, rather than a part of the
MOU that must be in place by July 1, 2017. This extension is provided to allow local areas
additional time to negotiate and reach consensus on one-stop partner infrastructure funding
contributions in PY 2017. During the extension period, local areas may use the funding
agreement they used for PY 2016, with any such modifications as the partners may agree to, to
fund infrastructure costs in the local area. All final IFAs must satisfy the requirements of sec.
121(h) of WIOA for funding the one-stop delivery system in PY 2017. For PY 2017 and
subsequent program years, the IFA must be completed and signed by all required partners and
additional partners that are participating by the date specified by the Governor.

Consistent with 20 CFR 678.755, 34 CFR 361.755, and 34 CFR 463.755, IFAs must include the

following elements:
a) The period of time in which the IFA is effective (which may be a different time
period than the duration of the MOU);
b) Identification of the infrastructure costs budget, which is a component of the one-stop
operating budget;
c) Identification of all one-stop partners, CEO(s), and the Local WDB participating in
the IFA;
d) A description of the periodic modification and review process to ensure equitable
benefit among one-stop partners;
e) Information on the steps the Local WDB, CEO(s), and one-stop partners used to
reach consensus or the assurance that the local area followed the SFM process; and
f) A description of the process to be used among partners to resolve issues related to
infrastructure funding during the MOU duration period when consensus cannot be
reached.

The Departments also consider it essential that the IFA include the signatures of individuals with
authority to bind the signatories to the IFA, including all one-stop partners, CEO(s), and Local

## WDB participating in the IFA.

Items (d) through (f) above are extremely important for two reasons. First, they are designed to
ensure that partners negotiate on a level playing field regarding the infrastructure funding of their
one-stop centers. Second, they are designed to ensure that partners have established a process to
attempt to resolve differences prior to triggering the SFM, as further described below.

## The following are the general steps in the allocation of infrastructure costs process:
## 1. Identify one-stop operating costs, including infrastructure costs and additional costs.
## 2. Develop the one-stop operating budget that includes an infrastructure costs budget
and additional costs budget.
## 3. Develop the cost allocation methodology, including the identification of cost pools
and allocation bases.







---
## Page 18







## 4. Determine estimated partner contributions.
## 5. Prepare and agree to the IFA(s).
## 6. Allocate actual costs by each partner’s proportionate use and relative benefit received.
## 7. Conduct a periodic reconciliation (i.e., monthly or quarterly).
## 8. Modify infrastructure costs budget and/or cost allocation methodology, as
appropriate.
## 9. Evaluate the existing process and prepare for the following program year.

Please note the IFAs do not need prior approval from a Federal cognizant agency or a pass-
through agency that would have otherwise reviewed and approved proposals for the allocation of
indirect costs. However, the infrastructure funding mechanisms are subject to review by Federal
administering agencies and one-stop partners to ensure compliance with applicable requirements.


## Infrastructure Funding Mechanisms

Infrastructure costs are funded either through the LFM or SFM. The LFM affords Local WDBs
and local one-stop partner programs flexibility to design and fund a one-stop delivery system
through consensus, to meet the needs of their local or regional area by leveraging the funds and
resources available to partners, and the Local WDB to optimally provide program services (20
CFR 678.715 through 678.725, 34 CFR 361.715 through 361.725, and 34 CFR 463.715 through
463.725). If the Local WDB fails to reach consensus with all of the required partners with regard
to the amount each partner will contribute to the one-stop delivery system’s infrastructure costs
pursuant to WIOA sec. 121(h)(1)(A)(i)(I), the SFM is triggered pursuant to WIOA sec.
121(h)(1)(A)(ii) and 20 CFR 678.725 and 678.730, 34 CFR 361.725 and 361.730, and 34 CFR
463.725 and 463.730.

Under the SFM, the Governor is required to calculate the statewide funding caps and the amount
available for local areas that have not reached consensus, and to determine the partners’
contributions for infrastructure costs using the process outlined below, as well as in 20 CFR

678.730 through 678.738, 34 CFR 361.730 through 361.738, and 34 CFR 463.730 through
463.738. The Governor calculates the statewide caps by considering total funding for a partner
program against the statutory caps specified in WIOA for infrastructure costs. Please note that
WIOA and its implementing regulations identify caps for specific partner programs. The SFM is
only applicable to required one-stop partners, and cannot be triggered by additional one-stop
partners not reaching consensus.

The intent of the LFM is to encourage local areas to make a good-faith effort to reach consensus
in developing a local IFA. The SFM is intended as a failsafe if local partners cannot come to
consensus regarding infrastructure cost funding. However, the application of capped levels of
funding under the SFM may restrict the amount one-stop partners have available for
infrastructure cost funding in a given local area.

## Local Funding Mechanism

In the LFM, the Local WDB, CEO(s), and one-stop partners negotiate and agree to the amounts

that each partner will contribute for one-stop infrastructure funding, as well as the methods of







---
## Page 19







calculating these amounts in order to include the infrastructure funding terms in the MOU as an
IFA, and to sign the IFA and MOU in accordance with WIOA secs. 121(c)(2)(A)(ii) and
121(h)(1)(A)(i).

- • A one-stop partner program’s proportionate share of funding must be calculated in
accordance with WIOA, its implementing regulations, and the Uniform Guidance. It
must be based upon a reasonable cost allocation methodology, whereby infrastructure
costs are charged to each partner based on the partner’s proportionate use of the one-
stop center and the relative benefits received, and must be allowable, reasonable,
necessary, and allocable. Partners’ contributions must be periodically reviewed (i.e.,
monthly or quarterly) and reconciled against actual costs incurred, and adjusted to
ensure that actual costs charged to any one-stop partner are based on proportionate

use and relative benefit received by the one-stop partner and its respective program or
activities.
- • WIOA does not include any caps on the amount or percentage of overall funding a
one-stop partner may contribute to fund infrastructure costs under the LFM, except
that each partner program’s contributions must be consistent with the program’s
authorizing statute and regulations, as well as with the Uniform Guidance. Detailed
guidance about which categories of funds programs can use is found above in section
## 6. The VR program does not distinguish between program or administrative funds.
## However, VR agencies must report contributions for infrastructure costs as
administrative costs. Contributions from the AEFLA and Perkins IV programs must
be from local administrative funds. Contributions made using administrative funds
may not exceed the amount available for administrative costs under the authorizing
statute or regulations of the partner program. In addition, no partner may contribute
more than its proportionate share based on relative benefit and use by the program,
consistent with the Uniform Guidance set forth in 2 CFR part 200 (see 20 CFR

678.720, 34 CFR 361.720, and 34 CFR 463.720).

## State Funding Mechanism

Although the local one-stop operating budget contains different cost components, failure by only
one of the required partners to reach consensus in a local area with respect to the infrastructure
costs in the IFA will trigger implementation of the SFM. A failure by required partners to reach
consensus on additional costs does not trigger the SFM. If the Local WDB and required one-
stop partners fail to reach consensus on funding infrastructure costs under the LFM, as outlined
above, this will trigger the SFM. Even if all required partners except one agree on the terms of
the IFA, consensus is not reached, and the SFM is triggered.

The SFM does not apply to additional partners and cannot be triggered by an additional partner’s
disagreement on the terms of the IFA or their refusal to sign the IFA. While additional partners
are not subject to the SFM, they still are required to contribute to one-stop infrastructure cost
funding in accordance with the program’s proportionate use of the one-stop center and relative

benefit received, consistent with the requirements for one-stop partner contributions in WIOA,
the Joint WIOA Final Rule, and the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200.








---
## Page 20







The SFM has eight discrete steps that must be followed by the Governor4 and Local WDB in
accordance with the statute and 20 CFR 678.730 through 678.750, 34 CFR 361.730 through
361.750, and 34 CFR 463.730 through 463.750. These steps are addressed in detail below.

## Step 1: Notice of failure to reach consensus given to the Governor:
If the Local WDB, local one-stop partners, and CEO(s) cannot reach consensus on
methods of sufficiently funding a one-stop center’s infrastructure costs and the amounts
to be contributed by each local partner program, the Local WDB is required to notify the
Governor. Notification must be given to the Governor by the specific date established in
the Governor’s guidance on infrastructure funding. Because the SFM requires the
Governor to make complex calculations and determinations and seek the counsel of
multiple parties in doing so, it is strongly advised that this date be set at least a few
months in advance of the beginning of the next Program Year (e.g., April or May for PY

2018 and those thereafter) in order to allow sufficient time for these calculations and
determinations to be completed well before the start of the program year for which
infrastructure costs are being negotiated (see section 14 of this guidance for a discussion
of the implementation timeline for PY 2017).

## Step 2: Local negotiation materials provided to the Governor:
In order to assist the Governor in making these calculations and determinations, the Local
WDB must provide the appropriate and relevant materials and documents used in the
negotiations under the LFM, preferably when notifying the Governor of the failure to
reach consensus. At a minimum, the Local WDB must give the Governor: (1) the local
WIOA plan; (2) the cost allocation methodology or methodologies proposed by the
partners to be used in determining the proportionate share; (3) the proposed amounts or
budget to fund infrastructure costs and the amount of partner funds included; (4) the type
of funds (cash, non-cash, and third-party in-kind contributions) available; (5) any
proposed or agreed upon one-stop center or system budget; and (6) any partially agreed
upon, proposed, or draft IFAs. The Local WDBs also may give the Governor additional

materials that they or the Governor find to be appropriate.

## Step 3: The Governor determines one-stop center infrastructure budget(s):
The Governor must determine the infrastructure budget(s). Depending on the local
delivery system structure, there may be more than one infrastructure budget, each of

4 20 CFR 678.730(c) In certain situations, the Governor does not determine the infrastructure cost contributions for
some one-stop partner programs under the State funding mechanism. (1) The Governor will not determine the
contribution amounts for infrastructure funds for Native American program grantees described in 20 part 684 of this
chapter. The appropriate portion of funds to be provided by Native American program grantees to pay for one-stop
infrastructure must be determined as part of the development of the MOU described in § 678.500 and specified in
that MOU. (2) In States in which the policy-making authority is placed in an entity or official that is independent of
the authority of the Governor with respect to the funds provided for adult education and literacy activities authorized
under title II of WIOA, postsecondary career and technical education activities authorized under the Carl D. Perkins
Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, or VR services authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973 (other than sec. 112 or part C), as amended by WIOA title IV, the determination of the amount each of the
applicable partners must contribute to assist in paying the infrastructure costs of one-stop centers must be made by
the official or chief officer of the entity with such authority, in consultation with the Governor. (See also 34 CFR
361.730(c) and 34 CFR 463.730(c).)






---
## Page 21







which is contained in a one-stop operating budget. While the Governor should take into
account the one-stop center’s operating budget, the Governor only has the power to
determine the infrastructure budget under the SFM. The Governor must determine the
infrastructure budget in one of two ways. If, as a result of an agreed upon infrastructure
budget, only the individual programmatic contributions to infrastructure funding based
upon proportionate use of the one-stop centers and relative benefit received are at issue,
the Governor may accept the infrastructure budget, from which the Governor must
calculate each partner’s contribution consistent with the cost allocation methodologies
contained in the Uniform Guidance. We recommend that the Governor utilize this course
of action if it is available.

If, however, an infrastructure budget or budgets were not agreed upon in the local negotiations,
or the Governor determines that the agreed upon budget does not adequately meet the needs of

the local area or does not reasonably work within the confines of the resources available to that
local area in accordance with the Governor’s guidance on one-stop infrastructure funding, then
the Governor must use a formula determined by the State WDB. This formula must identify the
factors, as well as each factor’s corresponding weight, that the Governor must use in determining
the one-stop center infrastructure budget. At a minimum, these factors must include: (1) the
number of one-stop centers in a local area; (2) the total population served by such centers; (3) the
services provided by such centers; and (4) any factors relating to the operations of such centers in
the local area that the State WDB determines are appropriate (20 CFR 678.745, 34 CFR 361.745,
and 34 CFR 463.745).

## Step 4: Governor establishes cost allocation methodology:5
After an infrastructure budget has been determined, the Governor must establish a cost
allocation methodology that determines the distribution of infrastructure funding costs
among the local one-stop partners in accordance with the principles of proportionate use
of the one-stop center and relative benefit received. This allocation methodology must be
consistent with the Federal Cost Principles of the Uniform Guidance in 2 CFR part 200,

all relevant Federal regulations and statutes, further regulatory guidance, and the partner
programs’ authorizing laws and regulations. Beyond these requirements, the determining
factor can be a wide range of variables, such as: number of customers served, square
footage used, or a different basis that is agreed upon for determining each partner’s
contribution level for infrastructure costs.

## Step 5: Partners’ proportionate shares are determined:
Once a methodology is established, the Governor must use this methodology to
determine each required one-stop partner’s proportionate share of infrastructure funding
costs. The Governor must take into account a number of factors in reaching a
proportionate share determination including: (1) the costs of administration of the one-
stop delivery system for purposes not specifically related to a one-stop center for each
partner (such as costs associated with maintaining the Local WDB or information
technology systems); (2) statutory requirements for each partner program; (3) each one-


## 5 As described in this guidance, a local area may use more than one cost allocation methodology to distribute costs.








---
## Page 22







stop partner’s ability to fulfill such requirements; and (4) all other applicable legal
requirements. The Governor may draw upon any proportionate share determinations
made during the local negotiations, including any agreements reached at the local level
by one or more partners, as well as any other materials or documents from the negotiating
process.

In some instances, the Governor does not determine each one-stop partner’s contribution
amounts for infrastructure costs. In States where the policy-making authority is placed in an
entity or official that is independent of the authority of the Governor with respect to the funds
provided for the AEFLA program, postsecondary career and technical education activities
authorized under Perkins IV, or the VR program, the determination of the amount each of the
applicable partners must contribute to assist in paying the infrastructure costs of one-stop centers
must be made by the official or chief officer of the entity with such authority, in consultation

with the Governor.

For other required partner programs in which grant awards are made to entities that are
independent of the authority of the Governor, such as Job Corps center contractors or grant
recipients of the DOL-administered national programs, the determination of the amount each of
the applicable partners must contribute to assist in paying the infrastructure costs of one-stop
centers continues to be made by the Governor, through the authority granted to the Governor by
## WIOA and its implementing regulations.

## Step 6: Governor calculates statewide caps:
Once the Governor has created a cost allocation methodology, the Governor then must
calculate the statewide caps to determine the maximum amounts that required partner
programs could be required to contribute toward infrastructure funding in that local area.
There are no statewide caps for additional partners because the SFM does not apply to
them.


The statewide caps are a statutory requirement for purposes of the SFM, even when only one
local area is unable to reach consensus on an IFA through the LFM. However, the caps only
restrict those infrastructure cost contributions required by one-stop partners within the local
area(s) that has (or have) not reached consensus. The caps used in the application of the SFM are
referred to as the applicable program caps, which must be calculated by the Governor using the
five sub-steps listed below.

In the event that more than one local area in a State does not reach consensus, then the aggregate
of the infrastructure funding costs that must be contributed by each required one-stop partner in
all of the local areas that did not reach consensus is restricted by the applicable program cap. For
example, if three of seven local areas within a State did not reach consensus, then the required
infrastructure funding contributions of each required one-stop partner under a particular program
in these three areas would be added together, the sum of which could not exceed the calculated
applicable program cap.

The Governor must take five sub-steps to calculate the applicable program cap for any given

program.







---
## Page 23








Sub-Step 1: The Governor must apply a partner’s individual applicable limiting
percentage (the statutory percentages listed in WIOA sec. 121(h)(2)(d))—which is
dependent on the type of program (see chart below)—to the total Federal funding which
that program receives for the affected program year to reach the maximum potential cap
(MPC). The applicable limiting percentage for a program is listed below and in WIOA
sec. 121(h)(2)(d), 20 CFR 678.738(c), 34 CFR 361.738(c), and 34 CFR 463.738(c).
Some programs will use previous years’ funding to determine the cap due to internal
program funding allocation or reallotment methods.

Sub-Step 2: The Governor must select a determining factor or factors that reasonably
indicate the use of one-stop centers in the State. This could be, for example, total
population, concentration of wealth, or another factor that is applicable to the State’s

workforce dynamic.

Sub-Step 3: The Governor applies the determining factor(s) to all local areas across the
State, and then determines the percentage of the factor(s) that is applicable to those areas
that reached consensus, or the consensus areas’ factor percentage.

Sub-Step 4: The Governor then applies the consensus areas’ factor percentage to the
## MPC to find the consensus areas’ portion of the MPC.

Sub-Step 5: The Governor subtracts the amount equal to the consensus local areas’
portion of the MPC from the MPC. The remaining amount is the applicable program cap
for use in the local areas that have not reached consensus and are subject to the SFM.

Limiting Percentages for Programmatic Statewide Caps on Infrastructure Funding Under the
## State Funding Mechanism


## Program Type                Limiting Percentage

## WIOA title I programs (youth, adult, or
3%
dislocated worker)
## Wagner-Peyser Act ES        3%

## AEFLA                       1.5%

1.5% of funds made available for
postsecondary level programs and activities
## Perkins IV
and funds used to administer postsecondary
level programs and activities in the prior year
0.75% of Fiscal Year 2016 Federal VR
# VR PY 2017
funding








| Limiting Percentages for Programmatic Statewide Caps on Infrastructure Funding Under the |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| State Funding Mechanism |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | Program Type |  |  | Limiting Percentage |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | WIOA title I programs (youth, adult, or |  | 3% |  |  |
|  |  | dislocated worker) |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | Wagner-Peyser Act ES |  |  | 3% |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  | AEFLA |  |  | 1.5% |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Perkins IV |  |  |  | 1.5% of funds made available for |  |
|  |  |  |  |  | postsecondary level programs and activities |  |
|  |  |  |  |  | and funds used to administer postsecondary |  |
|  |  |  |  |  | level programs and activities in the prior year |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | VR PY 2017 |  |  |  | 0.75% of Fiscal Year 2016 Federal VR |  |
|  |  |  |  |  | funding |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |



| 3% |
| --- |
|  |



| Perkins IV |
| --- |
|  |



| VR PY 2017 |
| --- |
|  |



---
## Page 24







## Program Type                Limiting Percentage

VR PY 2018                  1% of Fiscal Year 2017 Federal VR funding

1.25% of Fiscal Year 2018 Federal VR
# VR PY 2019
funding
1.5% of Fiscal Year 2019 (or applicable
## VR PY 2020 and subsequent years
previous year) Federal VR funding
1.5% of funds from the previous year spent
## TANF                        on work, education, and training activities,
plus any associated administrative costs

1.5% of funds from the previous year spent
by local CSBG-eligible entities to provide
# CSBG
employment and training activities, plus any
associated administrative costs
## Other required partners including Job
## Corps; YouthBuild; Native American
programs; MSFW (NFJP) programs;

## SCSEP; TAA; UC; HUD employment 1.5%
and training programs; and programs
authorized under sec. 212 of the
## Second Chance Act of 2007

## Additional (non-required) partners SFM does not apply


## Step 6 contains five sub-steps of which sub-steps 1, 4, and 5 contain the following formulas:

Sub-Step 1: Limiting percentage x total Federal program funding = MPC

Sub-Step 4: Consensus areas’ factor percentage x MPC = consensus areas’ portion of the
# MPC

Sub-Step 5: MPC – consensus areas’ portion of the MPC = applicable program cap for
non-consensus area(s)

## Cap calculation examples:

Example 1: In PY 2017, there are seven local areas within a State, two of which have not
reached consensus on infrastructure funding. Program A—which is a WIOA title I

program—receives $30 million in total Federal funding for PY 2017. Applying the
appropriate limiting percentage of three percent to the program’s total Federal funding
results in a MPC of $900,000 for PY 2017.







|  | Program Type |  |  | Limiting Percentage |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | VR PY 2018 |  |  | 1% of Fiscal Year 2017 Federal VR funding |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| VR PY 2019 |  |  |  | 1.25% of Fiscal Year 2018 Federal VR |  |
|  |  |  |  | funding |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| VR PY 2020 and subsequent years |  |  |  | 1.5% of Fiscal Year 2019 (or applicable |  |
|  |  |  |  | previous year) Federal VR funding |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| TANF |  |  |  | 1.5% of funds from the previous year spent |  |
|  |  |  |  | on work, education, and training activities, |  |
|  |  |  |  | plus any associated administrative costs |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| CSBG |  |  |  | 1.5% of funds from the previous year spent |  |
|  |  |  |  | by local CSBG-eligible entities to provide |  |
|  |  |  |  | employment and training activities, plus any |  |
|  |  |  |  | associated administrative costs |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Other required partners including Job |  | 1.5% |  |  |
|  | Corps; YouthBuild; Native American |  |  |  |  |
|  | programs; MSFW (NFJP) programs; |  |  |  |  |
|  | SCSEP; TAA; UC; HUD employment |  |  |  |  |
|  | and training programs; and programs |  |  |  |  |
|  | authorized under sec. 212 of the |  |  |  |  |
|  | Second Chance Act of 2007 |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Additional (non-required) partners |  |  | SFM does not apply |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |



| VR PY 2019 |
| --- |
|  |



| VR PY 2020 and subsequent years |
| --- |
|  |



| TANF |
| --- |
|  |



| CSBG |
| --- |
|  |



| 1.5% |
| --- |
|  |



| Example 1: In PY 2017, there are seven local areas within a State, two of which have not |
| --- |
| reached consensus on infrastructure funding. Program A—which is a WIOA title I |
| program—receives $30 million in total Federal funding for PY 2017. Applying the |
| appropriate limiting percentage of three percent to the program’s total Federal funding |
| results in a MPC of $900,000 for PY 2017. |



---
## Page 25







.03 x 30,000,000 = 900,000

The Governor selects total population as the determining factor and finds that 70
percent of the State’s population resides in local areas that have reached consensus,
which is the consensus areas’ factor percentage. The Governor then applies the
consensus areas’ factor percentage (70 percent) to the MPC ($900,000), resulting in
the consensus areas’ portion of the MPC being $630,000.

.7 x $900,000 = $630,000

Finally, the Governor subtracts the consensus areas’ portion of the MPC ($630,000)
from the MPC ($900,000), giving an applicable program cap of $270,000 for the non-
consensus area(s). This portion of the cap does not have to be divided evenly between
local areas, but rather in a manner determined by the Governor.

$900,000 – $630,000 = $270,000

Example 2: In addition to Program A listed above, Program B—a VR program—
received a Federal VR allotment of $10 million for the State in FY 2016. Applying the
appropriate PY 2017 limiting percentage of 0.75% to the State’s Federal FY 2016 VR
allotment results in a MPC of $75,000 for PY 2017.

.0075 x $10,000,000 = $75,000

The Governor selects total population as the determining factor, and finds that 70
percent of the State’s population resides in local areas that have reached consensus,
which is the consensus areas’ factor percentage. The Governor then applies the
consensus areas’ factor percentage (70 percent) to the MPC ($75,000), resulting in the

consensus areas’ portion of the MPC being $52,500.
.7 x $75,000 = $52,500

Finally, the Governor subtracts the consensus areas’ portion of the MPC ($52,500)

from the MPC ($75,000), giving an applicable program cap of $22,500 for the non-
consensus area(s).

$75,000 – $52,500 = $22,500

Step 7: Governor assesses the aggregate total of infrastructure contributions as it
relates to the statewide cap:
Once the Governor has determined the applicable program cap for each program, as well
as the proportionate share of the infrastructure costs that the Governor has determined
under Step 5 would be required of each local required one-stop partner in a non-
consensus area without regard to the cap, the Governor must ensure that the funds
required to be contributed by each partner program in the non-consensus local area(s), in
aggregate, do not exceed the applicable program cap.

If the aggregate total contributions are below the applicable program cap, then the







| The Governor selects total population as the determining factor and finds that 70 |
| --- |
| percent of the State’s population resides in local areas that have reached consensus, |
| which is the consensus areas’ factor percentage. The Governor then applies the |
| consensus areas’ factor percentage (70 percent) to the MPC ($900,000), resulting in |
| the consensus areas’ portion of the MPC being $630,000. |



| Finally, the Governor subtracts the consensus areas’ portion of the MPC ($630,000) |
| --- |
| from the MPC ($900,000), giving an applicable program cap of $270,000 for the non- |
| consensus area(s). This portion of the cap does not have to be divided evenly between |
| local areas, but rather in a manner determined by the Governor. |



| Example 2: In addition to Program A listed above, Program B—a VR program— |
| --- |
| received a Federal VR allotment of $10 million for the State in FY 2016. Applying the |
| appropriate PY 2017 limiting percentage of 0.75% to the State’s Federal FY 2016 VR |
| allotment results in a MPC of $75,000 for PY 2017. |



| The Governor selects total population as the determining factor, and finds that 70 |
| --- |
| percent of the State’s population resides in local areas that have reached consensus, |
| which is the consensus areas’ factor percentage. The Governor then applies the |
| consensus areas’ factor percentage (70 percent) to the MPC ($75,000), resulting in the |
| consensus areas’ portion of the MPC being $52,500. |



| Finally, the Governor subtracts the consensus areas’ portion of the MPC ($52,500) |
| --- |
| from the MPC ($75,000), giving an applicable program cap of $22,500 for the non- |
| consensus area(s). |



|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| If the aggregate total contributions are below the applicable program cap, then the |  |



---
## Page 26







Governor must direct the one-stop partners to contribute what was determined to be their
proportionate shares. If the aggregate total contributions exceed the cap, then the
## Governor may either:

- A. Inquire as to whether those local partner programs that have pushed the aggregate
total contributions above the applicable program cap (i.e., those whose
contributions would have otherwise exceeded the Statewide cap on contributions)
are willing to contribute beyond the applicable program cap in accordance with
their proportionate share; or
## B. Allow the Local WDB, one-stop partners, and CEO(s) to:
- • Re-enter negotiations to reassess each one-stop partner’s proportionate share
and make adjustments and identify alternate sources of funding to make up the
difference between the capped amount and the proportionate share of

infrastructure funding of the one-stop partner; and
- • Reduce infrastructure costs to reflect the amount of funds available without
exceeding the applicable program cap level.

## Step 8: Governor adjusts proportionate shares:
The Governor must make adjustments to specific local partners’ proportionate share in
accordance with the amounts available under the applicable program cap for the
associated program, if the Local WDB, CEO(s), and the required one-stop partners fail to
reach agreement on how to address the situation in which the proportionate share exceeds
the cap using the approaches described in Step 7. The aggregate total contribution of a
program’s local one-stop partners under the SFM may not exceed the applicable program
cap.

## Appeals Process

The Governor must establish a process, described in the Unified or Combined State Plan, for

one-stop partners to appeal the Governor’s determination regarding the one-stop partner’s
portion of funds to be provided for one-stop infrastructure costs under the SFM, as outlined in 20
## CFR 678.750, 34 CFR 361.750, and 34 CFR 463.750.

## Partner programs not under the control of the Governor

Under the SFM, the Governor has authority to determine the financial contribution of all
required one-stop partners towards infrastructure costs in accordance with 20 CFR 678.725
through 678.738, 34 CFR 361.725 through 361.738, and 34 CFR 463.725 through 463.738. For
AEFLA programs and activities, the VR program, and postsecondary career and technical
education activities under Perkins IV, in States in which the policy-making authority is placed in
an entity or official that is independent of the authority of the Governor, the determination of the
amount each of these programs must contribute toward infrastructure costs must be made by the
official or chief officer of the entity with policy-making authority, in consultation with the
Governor (20 CFR 678.730(c)(2), 34 CFR 361.730(c)(2), and 34 CFR 463.730(c)(2)).


## Preference for Implementing the Local Funding Mechanism







| Governor must direct the one-stop partners to contribute what was determined to be their |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| proportionate shares. If the aggregate total contributions exceed the cap, then the |  |  |  |
| Governor may either: |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  | A. Inquire as to whether those local partner programs that have pushed the aggregate |  |  |
|  | total contributions above the applicable program cap (i.e., those whose |  |  |
|  | contributions would have otherwise exceeded the Statewide cap on contributions) |  |  |
|  | are willing to contribute beyond the applicable program cap in accordance with |  |  |
|  | their proportionate share; or |  |  |
|  | B. Allow the Local WDB, one-stop partners, and CEO(s) to: |  |  |
|  |  | • Re-enter negotiations to reassess each one-stop partner’s proportionate share |  |
|  |  | and make adjustments and identify alternate sources of funding to make up the |  |
|  |  | difference between the capped amount and the proportionate share of |  |
|  |  | infrastructure funding of the one-stop partner; and |  |
|  |  | • Reduce infrastructure costs to reflect the amount of funds available without |  |
|  |  | exceeding the applicable program cap level. |  |
|  |  |  |  |



---
## Page 27








The Departments emphasize the importance of local one-stop partners, Local WDBs, and CEOs
reaching consensus on infrastructure funding during local negotiations, thus avoiding the
necessity of utilizing the SFM. The underlying reason for this is that local parties involved in the
development of the MOU, whether they are one-stop partners, Local WDBs, or CEOs, are more
likely to understand the needs of the local area’s workforce, how to best meet these needs
through the one-stop delivery system, and the resources needed to meet these needs, as well as
the best way to obtain these resources to encourage the use of the LFM and input from local
entities. There are no specific programmatic caps on the amount or percent of overall funding a
one-stop partner may contribute to fund infrastructure costs under the LFM, except that
contributions for administrative costs may not exceed the amount available for administrative
costs where applicable under the authorizing statute of the partner program, and contributions
may not exceed a partner’s proportionate use or relative benefit received consistent with the

requirements of the Uniform Guidance.

Under the SFM, the Governor may direct the Local WDB, CEO(s), and required one-stop
partners into renegotiations. In this event, parties may come to agreement, sign a MOU, and
proceed under the LFM. Such actions do not require the redetermination of the applicable caps
under the SFM.

It is expected that the Governor generally will draw heavily from the local negotiation process
throughout the implementation of the SFM. As such, even if consensus cannot ultimately be
reached in a local area, it is to the benefit of each local one-stop partner to actively participate in
local negotiations in a good faith effort to reach agreement. Governors are encouraged to take
into account agreed upon budgets, proposed funding commitments, proposed or agreed upon
proportionate share allocation methodologies, and other information generated during local
negotiations. Parties negotiating in good faith will consequently have much more influence over
the outcomes of an eventual implementation of the SFM, if that is necessary.

The SFM’s programmatic caps create uncertainty for local one-stop partners regarding how
much they will be required to contribute toward infrastructure costs and the level of service they

will be able to provide to their participants. For example, if only one local area in a State is
unable to reach agreement, then that local area’s one-stop partners could be held responsible for
the total difference between the MPC and the amount that the consensus area is already
considered to have contributed towards the MPC. Since the Governor, not the one-stop partners,
has the final say under the SFM concerning the proportionate shares of each local one-stop
partner and the allocation method under which this is calculated, a one-stop partner could pay far
more under the SFM than it would have paid under the LFM.

One-stop operating budget and partner proportionate shares are calculated before the caps are
calculated under the SFM, and the caps do not automatically contribute to a restriction of
services. This order of calculations permits local one-stop partners that are willing to contribute
above their applicable cap amounts within the bounds of the requirements of authorizing statutes,
so long as no partner pays more than its proportionate share, based on proportionate use and
relative benefit received, consistent with the Uniform Guidance in 2 CFR part 200.

## Roles and Responsibilities







| The SFM’s programmatic caps create uncertainty for local one-stop partners regarding how |
| --- |
| much they will be required to contribute toward infrastructure costs and the level of service they |
| will be able to provide to their participants. For example, if only one local area in a State is |
| unable to reach agreement, then that local area’s one-stop partners could be held responsible for |
| the total difference between the MPC and the amount that the consensus area is already |
| considered to have contributed towards the MPC. Since the Governor, not the one-stop partners, |
| has the final say under the SFM concerning the proportionate shares of each local one-stop |
| partner and the allocation method under which this is calculated, a one-stop partner could pay far |
| more under the SFM than it would have paid under the LFM. |
| One-stop operating budget and partner proportionate shares are calculated before the caps are |
| calculated under the SFM, and the caps do not automatically contribute to a restriction of |
| services. This order of calculations permits local one-stop partners that are willing to contribute |
| above their applicable cap amounts within the bounds of the requirements of authorizing statutes, |
| so long as no partner pays more than its proportionate share, based on proportionate use and |
| relative benefit received, consistent with the Uniform Guidance in 2 CFR part 200. |



---
## Page 28








This section outlines the roles and responsibilities of Governors, State and Local WDBs, CEOs,
and one-stop partners.

## Governors

After consultation with CEOs and the State and Local WDBs, the Governor must issue guidance,
in accordance with 20 CFR 678.705, 34 CFR 361.705, and 34 CFR 463.705, about the funding
of one-stop infrastructure costs to:

State-administered one-stop partner programs, to determine partner contributions to the one-stop
delivery system, based on each partner’s proportionate use of the one-stop system and relative
benefit received, consistent with the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200; and Local WDBs,
CEOs, and one-stop partners, to assist in determining equitable and stable methods of funding
infrastructure costs based on partners’ proportionate use and relative benefit received from

operating within the one-stop delivery system (WIOA sec.121(h)(1)(B)(i)). The guidance issued
by the Governor must cover partner roles in identifying infrastructure costs; approaches to
facilitate development of a reasonable cost allocation methodology/methodologies, in which
infrastructure costs are charged based upon proportionate use and the relative benefits received
by the partner; timelines for the appeal process; and timelines to notify the Governor of failure to
reach a local consensus. The Governor also is responsible for performing many of the functions
of the SFM, as is detailed above.

## State WDBs

State WDBs consult with the Governor to assist with the issuance of guidance regarding the
funding of infrastructure costs, as outlined above and in 20 CFR 678.705(a), 34 CFR 361.705(a),
and 34 CFR 463.705(a). State WDBs also are responsible for the development of the formula
used by the Governor under the SFM to determine a one-stop center’s budget if either a budget
was not agreed upon during initial local negotiations or the Governor rejects a budget for the
reasons explained earlier in this guidance (20 CFR 678.745, 34 CFR 361.745, and 34 CFR
463.745).

## Local WDBs

Local WDBs and one-stop partners must establish, in the MOU, an IFA for how the Local WDB

and programs will fund the infrastructure costs of the one-stop centers (WIOA sec. 121(c)(1), 20
CFR 678.500(b)(2)(i), 34 CFR 361.500(b)(2)(i), and 34 CFR 463.500(b)(2)(i)). If one-stop
partners are unable to reach consensus on funding for infrastructure costs of one-stop centers, the
Local WDB must notify the State WDB, Governor, and relevant State agency (20 CFR
678.510(c), 34 CFR 361.510(c), and 34 CFR 463.510(c)).

## Chief Elected Officials

CEOs consult with the Governor to assist in issuing guidelines regarding the one-stop service
delivery funding mechanism, as outlined above (20 CFR 678.705, 34 CFR 361.705, and 34 CFR
463.705).







---
## Page 29







## One-Stop Partners

One-stop partners are to act in good faith and negotiate infrastructure costs and additional costs
of operating a local one-stop delivery system in a transparent manner (20 CFR 678.510(a), 34
CFR 361.510(a), and 34 CFR 463.510(a)). Jointly-funded infrastructure and additional costs are
a necessary foundation for a one-stop service delivery system. Through the sharing of
infrastructure costs and additional costs, partners are empowered to build a robust one-stop
delivery system. By embracing the one-stop opportunities, one-stop partners are able to build
community-benefiting bridges, rather than silos of programmatic isolation. These partnerships
may reduce administrative burden and costs and increase customer access and performance
outcomes.

Required one-stop partner programs have specific governance, operations, and service delivery
roles, which are outlined in WIOA sec. 121(b)(1)(A) and 20 CFR 678.420, 34 CFR 361.420, and
## 34 CFR 463.420. Additional partners provide services and also must contribute towards the

infrastructure and additional costs of operating a local one-stop delivery system.

## Implementation Timeline

DOL is using its transition authority in WIOA sec. 503(b) to provide an extension for the
implementation date of the final IFAs for PY 2017. With this extension, final IFAs must be in
place no later than January 1, 2018. However, Governors have the discretion to require local
areas to enter into final IFAs at any time between July 1, 2017 and January 1, 2018. During the
extension period, local areas may use the funding agreement they used for PY 2016, with any
such modifications as the partners may agree to, to fund infrastructure costs in the local area.
Furthermore, during the extension period, the regulations at 20 CFR 678.510(b) and 678.715(c),
## 34 CFR 361.510(b) and 361.715(c), and 34 CFR 463.510(b) and 463.715(c) providing for a six-
month interim IFA do not apply. This extension does not change the deadline of July 1, 2017 for
the rest of the MOU.

The Departments encourage Governors, State and Local WDBs, and Federal program partners to
begin consultations about infrastructure LFMs and SFMs immediately to support the
development and issuance of guidance regarding one-stop service delivery system funding as
soon as possible.

# INQUIRIES:

## Carol Dobak, Director, State Monitoring and Program Improvement Division

- (202) 245-7325
## Carol.Dobak@ed.gov

# CITATIONS:

## Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, Pub. L. 113-128










---
## Page 30







Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Joint Rule for United and Combined State Plans,
Performance Accountability, and the One-Stop System Joint Provisions, 81 Fed. Reg. 55791
(Aug. 19, 2016)

/s/
## Janet L. LaBreck
## Commissioner
## Attachments

cc:  Council of State Administrators of Vocational Rehabilitation
## National Council of State Agencies for the Blind













































---
## Page 31



## Attachment I: Examples of Cost Pools and Applicable Allocation Bases


## Cost Pool                          Possible Allocation Bases
Facilities: Building rent, maintenance costs, utilities, Square footage occupied by each partner agency as
tenant improvements, or any other similar costs related to compared to the total space, workstation usage by
the physical structure housing the one-stop center. partners as compared to total workstations.


Telecommunications: Monthly telephone costs, Dedicated telephone units as compared to all units.
telephone system equipment, data lines, T-1 lines, and
other similar costs.

Information Technology: Shared equipment, software, Number of dedicated computers (including all necessary
IT maintenance costs, Internet access, and other similar equipment) as compared to total.

costs.

Resource Center: Costs of shared equipment, displays, Number of program participants or reportable individuals
computer learning, specialized software for computer utilizing the resource center.
learning, furniture, copier, fax machine; may also include
related staff costs.

Common Intake System: Costs of developing common Use of common data formats and data elements required
intake data formats, preparation and interview of for each program. Use of number of customer or
customers, and similar costs.           participant records maintained by each partner program.


One-Stop Center Management Staff: Costs of the Number of partner program staff FTEs. Square footage of
center director.                        partner program benefit or number of program
participants and reportable individuals served.
One-Stop Center General Operations Staff: Number of partner program participants.
## Costs of the receptionist, staff of the resource center.


Shared Equipment and Supplies: Staff copier, fax, Usage by staff of each partner program. Occupancy
associated supplies, and furniture.     (square footage) basis; numbers of staff workstations.


Career Services: Staff and benefit costs, development of Time distribution system (time sheets, work sampling,
common forms for case management, and similar costs. time and motion studies); numbers of clients eligible for
specific program; weighted participation numbers.


















| Cost Pool |  |  | Possible Allocation Bases |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Facilities: Building rent, maintenance costs, utilities,
tenant improvements, or any other similar costs related to
the physical structure housing the one-stop center. |  |  | Square footage occupied by each partner agency as
compared to the total space, workstation usage by
partners as compared to total workstations. |
| Telecommunications: Monthly telephone costs,
telephone system equipment, data lines, T-1 lines, and
other similar costs. |  |  | Dedicated telephone units as compared to all units. |
|  | Information Technology: Shared equipment, software, |  | Number of dedicated computers (including all necessary
equipment) as compared to total. |
|  | IT maintenance costs, Internet access, and other similar |  |  |
|  | costs. |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
| Resource Center: Costs of shared equipment, displays,
computer learning, specialized software for computer
learning, furniture, copier, fax machine; may also include
related staff costs. |  |  | Number of program participants or reportable individuals
utilizing the resource center. |
| Common Intake System: Costs of developing common
intake data formats, preparation and interview of
customers, and similar costs. |  |  | Use of common data formats and data elements required
for each program. Use of number of customer or
participant records maintained by each partner program. |
| One-Stop Center Management Staff: Costs of the
center director. |  |  | Number of partner program staff FTEs. Square footage of
partner program benefit or number of program
participants and reportable individuals served. |
| One-Stop Center General Operations Staff:
Costs of the receptionist, staff of the resource center. |  |  | Number of partner program participants. |
| Shared Equipment and Supplies: Staff copier, fax,
associated supplies, and furniture. |  |  | Usage by staff of each partner program. Occupancy
(square footage) basis; numbers of staff workstations. |
| Career Services: Staff and benefit costs, development of
common forms for case management, and similar costs. |  |  | Time distribution system (time sheets, work sampling,
time and motion studies); numbers of clients eligible for
specific program; weighted participation numbers. |



| Facilities: Building rent, maintenance costs, utilities, |
| --- |
| tenant improvements, or any other similar costs related to |
| the physical structure housing the one-stop center. |



| Square footage occupied by each partner agency as |
| --- |
| compared to the total space, workstation usage by |
| partners as compared to total workstations. |



| Number of dedicated computers (including all necessary |
| --- |
| equipment) as compared to total. |



| Common Intake System: Costs of developing common |
| --- |
| intake data formats, preparation and interview of |
| customers, and similar costs. |



| Use of common data formats and data elements required |
| --- |
| for each program. Use of number of customer or |
| participant records maintained by each partner program. |



| Shared Equipment and Supplies: Staff copier, fax, |
| --- |
| associated supplies, and furniture. |



| Usage by staff of each partner program. Occupancy |
| --- |
| (square footage) basis; numbers of staff workstations. |



---
## Page 32



## Attachment II: Paying for One Stop Delivery System Chart

## WIOA sec. 121(h)(1)(B); 20 CFR 678.705, 34 CFR
# GOVERNOR GUIDANCE
# 361.705, 34 CFR 463.705
Governors must issue guidance regarding the infrastructure funding of a one-stop delivery system after consultation
with chief elected officials (CEO), the State workforce development board (WDB), and Local WDBs. The guidance
must be consistent with guidance and policies provided by the State WDB.
## WIOA sec. 121; 20 CFR 678.300, 34 CFR 361.300,
# LOCAL DELIVERY SYSTEM
# 34 CFR 463.300
 The Local WDB and CEO(s) finalize the list of one-stop delivery system partners in a local area
 The Local WDB, CEO(s), and partners:
- • Identify one-stop delivery system locations and determine types of locations (comprehensive, affiliate,
specialized one-stop centers, etc.),
- • Determine services to be provided through the one-stop delivery system, and
- • Develop and agree on a one-stop delivery system operating budget(s).


## WIOA sec. 121(c); 20 CFR 678.500, 34 CFR 361.500,
## MEMORANDUM  OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU)
# 34 CFR 463.500
 The Local WDB, with the agreement of the CEO(s), develops and enters into a signed umbrella memorandum of
understanding (MOU) or individual MOUs with the one-stop partners.
 MOUs must, at a minimum, describe the services to be provided, contain the one-stop operating budget, outline how
infrastructure and additional costs will be funded, and contain several other elements outlined in WIOA sec. 121(c)
and 20 CFR 678.500, 34 CFR 361.500, and 34 CFR 463.500.
 An Infrastructure Funding Agreement (IFA) is established that describes a reasonable cost allocation
methodology, where infrastructure costs are charged to each partner based on partners’ proportionate use of the one-
stop center, relative to the benefits received from the use of the one-stop center consistent with Federal Cost
Principles in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200 and the Department of Labor exceptions at 2 CFR part 2900.
 The IFA must be consistent with the partner programs’ authorizing laws and regulations, and other applicable legal
requirements.
 Changes in the one-stop partners or an appeal by a one-stop partner’s infrastructure cost contributions will require an
update of the MOU.
 The IFA is a part of the MOU; it is not a separate document.
## Was consensus on the IFA obtained?
## Consensus Obtained                     No Consensus Obtained
## Local Funding Mechanism                 State Funding Mechanism
WIOA sec. 121(h); 20 CFR 678.715 – 678.745, 34 CFR 361.715 – 361.745, and 34 CFR 463.715 – 463.745

 Continue one-stop operations and service delivery.  When local negotiations for PY 2017 (and subsequent PYs) are
 Periodically reconcile IFA with actual costs. unable to reach consensus, notify Governor by deadline
 Modify other costs, such as additional costs budget, and established in Governor’s guidance to trigger state funding
mechanism6.
partner contributions, as appropriate.
 Modify allocation methods, if necessary.  Once partner contributions are determined, periodically reconcile
## IFA with actual costs.
 Modify other costs, such as additional costs budget, and partner
contributions, as appropriate.
 Modify allocation methods, if necessary.


## 6 For PY 2016, continue one-stop operations and service delivery as long as possible, using processes established under WIA.






| GOVERNOR GUIDANCE |  | WIOA sec. 121(h)(1)(B); 20 CFR 678.705, 34 CFR
361.705, 34 CFR 463.705 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Governors must issue guidance regarding the infrastructure funding of a one-stop delivery system after consultation
with chief elected officials (CEO), the State workforce development board (WDB), and Local WDBs. The guidance
must be consistent with guidance and policies provided by the State WDB. |  |  |



| LOCAL DELIVERY SYSTEM |  | WIOA sec. 121; 20 CFR 678.300, 34 CFR 361.300,
34 CFR 463.300 |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  The Local WDB and CEO(s) finalize the list of one-stop delivery system partners in a local area
 The Local WDB, CEO(s), and partners:
• Identify one-stop delivery system locations and determine types of locations (comprehensive, affiliate,
specialized one-stop centers, etc.),
• Determine services to be provided through the one-stop delivery system, and
• Develop and agree on a one-stop delivery system operating budget(s). |  |  |



| MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU) |  |  | WIOA sec. 121(c); 20 CFR 678.500, 34 CFR 361.500, |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  | 34 CFR 463.500 |  |
|  The Local WDB, with the agreement of the CEO(s), develops and enters into a signed umbrella memorandum of
understanding (MOU) or individual MOUs with the one-stop partners.
 MOUs must, at a minimum, describe the services to be provided, contain the one-stop operating budget, outline how
infrastructure and additional costs will be funded, and contain several other elements outlined in WIOA sec. 121(c)
and 20 CFR 678.500, 34 CFR 361.500, and 34 CFR 463.500. |  |  |  |  |
|  An Infrastructure Funding Agreement (IFA) is established that describes a reasonable cost allocation
methodology, where infrastructure costs are charged to each partner based on partners’ proportionate use of the one-
stop center, relative to the benefits received from the use of the one-stop center consistent with Federal Cost
Principles in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200 and the Department of Labor exceptions at 2 CFR part 2900.
 The IFA must be consistent with the partner programs’ authorizing laws and regulations, and other applicable legal
requirements.
 Changes in the one-stop partners or an appeal by a one-stop partner’s infrastructure cost contributions will require an
update of the MOU.
 The IFA is a part of the MOU; it is not a separate document. |  |  |  |  |
|  | Was consensus on the IFA obtained? |  |  |  |



|  | Consensus Obtained |  |  | No Consensus Obtained |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | Local Funding Mechanism |  |  | State Funding Mechanism |  |
|  | WIOA sec. 121(h); 20 CFR 678.715 – 678.745, 34 CFR 361.715 – 361.745, and 34 CFR 463.715 – 463.745 |  |  |  |  |
|  Continue one-stop operations and service delivery.
 Periodically reconcile IFA with actual costs.
 Modify other costs, such as additional costs budget, and
partner contributions, as appropriate.
 Modify allocation methods, if necessary. |  |  |  When local negotiations for PY 2017 (and subsequent PYs) are
unable to reach consensus, notify Governor by deadline
established in Governor’s guidance to trigger state funding
mechanism6.
 Once partner contributions are determined, periodically reconcile
IFA with actual costs.
 Modify other costs, such as additional costs budget, and partner
contributions, as appropriate.
 Modify allocation methods, if necessary. |  |  |



---
## Page 33




## Types of One-Stop Delivery System Costs

## WIOA sec. 121(h)(4); 20 CFR 678.700(a)-(b),
# INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS
## 34 CFR 361.700(a)-(b), 34 CFR 463.700(a)-(b)
 Non-personnel costs
 Costs necessary for the general operation of the one-stop center, including but not limited to:
- • Applicable facility costs (such as rent) including costs of utilities and maintenance
- • Equipment (including assessment-related products and assistive technology for individuals with disabilities)
- • Technology to facilitate access to the one-stop center, including technology used for the center’s planning and
outreach activities
- • May consider common identifier costs as costs of one-stop infrastructure
- • May consider supplies as defined in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR 200.94, to support the general operation of
the one-stop center.
ADDITIONAL COSTS                             WIOA sec. 121(i)(1); 20 CFR 678.760(a)-(b),
(Applicable career services, shared operating costs, and shared 34 CFR 361.760(a)-(b), 34 CFR 463.760(a)-(b)
services)
 Must include the costs of the provision of career services in WIOA sec. 134(c)(2) applicable to each program
consistent with partner program’s authorizing Federal statutes and regulations, and allocable based on Federal cost
principles in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200.
 May include shared operating costs and shared services that are authorized for, and may be commonly provided
through, the one-stop partner programs, including initial intake, assessment of needs, appraisal of basic skills,
identification of appropriate services, referrals to other one-stop partners, and business services.

## 20 CFR 678.720 and 678.760, 34 CFR 361.720 and
# INFRASTRUCTURE FUNDING TYPES
361.760, 34 CFR 463.720 and 463.760
## Cash                  Non-Cash              Third-Party In-Kind
 Contributions of space, equipment,
technology, non-personnel services, or
 Expenditures incurred by one-stop other like items to support the
 Cash funds provided to the local partners on behalf of the one-stop infrastructure costs associated with one-
board or its designee by one- center; and      stop operations, by a non-one-stop
stop partners, either directly or  Non-cash contributions or goods or partner to:
by an interagency transfer, or by services contributed by a partner • Support the one-stop center in
a third party.        program and used by the one-stop general; or
center.                    • Support the proportionate share of
one-stop infrastructure costs of a
specific partner.

Must be valued consistent with 2 CFR 200.306 to ensure they are fairly evaluated
and meet the partners’ proportionate share. Partners must fairly value
contributions on a periodic and annual basis.
















| INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS |  | WIOA sec. 121(h)(4); 20 CFR 678.700(a)-(b), |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  | 34 CFR 361.700(a)-(b), 34 CFR 463.700(a)-(b) |  |
|  Non-personnel costs
 Costs necessary for the general operation of the one-stop center, including but not limited to:
• Applicable facility costs (such as rent) including costs of utilities and maintenance
• Equipment (including assessment-related products and assistive technology for individuals with disabilities)
• Technology to facilitate access to the one-stop center, including technology used for the center’s planning and
outreach activities
• May consider common identifier costs as costs of one-stop infrastructure
• May consider supplies as defined in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR 200.94, to support the general operation of
the one-stop center. |  |  |  |



|  | ADDITIONAL COSTS |  |  | WIOA sec. 121(i)(1); 20 CFR 678.760(a)-(b), |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | (Applicable career services, shared operating costs, and shared |  |  | 34 CFR 361.760(a)-(b), 34 CFR 463.760(a)-(b) |  |
|  | services) |  |  |  |  |
|  Must include the costs of the provision of career services in WIOA sec. 134(c)(2) applicable to each program
consistent with partner program’s authorizing Federal statutes and regulations, and allocable based on Federal cost
principles in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200.
 May include shared operating costs and shared services that are authorized for, and may be commonly provided
through, the one-stop partner programs, including initial intake, assessment of needs, appraisal of basic skills,
identification of appropriate services, referrals to other one-stop partners, and business services. |  |  |  |  |  |



| INFRASTRUCTURE FUNDING TYPES |  |  | 20 CFR 678.720 and 678.760, 34 CFR 361.720 and |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  | 361.760, 34 CFR 463.720 and 463.760 |  |  |
| Cash | Non-Cash |  |  | Third-Party In-Kind |  |
|  Cash funds provided to the local
board or its designee by one-
stop partners, either directly or
by an interagency transfer, or by
a third party. |  Expenditures incurred by one-stop
partners on behalf of the one-stop
center; and
 Non-cash contributions or goods or
services contributed by a partner
program and used by the one-stop
center. |  |  |  Contributions of space, equipment,
technology, non-personnel services, or
other like items to support the
infrastructure costs associated with one-
stop operations, by a non-one-stop
partner to:
• Support the one-stop center in
general; or
• Support the proportionate share of
one-stop infrastructure costs of a
specific partner. |  |
|  | Must be valued consistent with 2 CFR 200.306 to ensure they are fairly evaluated
and meet the partners’ proportionate share. Partners must fairly value
contributions on a periodic and annual basis. |  |  |  |  |



---
## Page 34



## Attachment III: Infrastructure Costs: Funding Sources

## Admin. Funds Program
## Required/                    State Funding
to Pay  Funds to Pay
Dept.             Partner Program         Additional                    Mechanism
## Infrastructure Infrastructure
## Partner                      Applicable8
## Costs7    Costs
## DOL  WIOA Title I programs:               Required   Yes        Yes       Yes
- • Adult, Dislocated Worker, & Youth
## DOL    • Job Corps                        Required    No        Yes       Yes
## DOL    • YouthBuild                       Required   Yes        Yes       Yes
## DOL    • NFJP                             Required   Yes        Yes       Yes
## DOL    • Native American programs9        Required   Yes        Yes       No
## DOL  Wagner-Peyser Act ES                 Required   N/A10      Yes       Yes
## DOL  SCSEP                                Required   Yes        Yes       Yes
## DOL  TAA program                          Required   Yes        Yes       Yes
## DOL  UC programs                          Required   N/A10      Yes       Yes
## DOL  JVSG programs                        Required   N/A10      Yes       Yes
DOL  REO programs authorized under sec. 212 of the Second Required Yes Yes Yes
## Chance Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17532) and WIOA sec.
169
ED   AEFLA program, authorized under WIOA title II Required Yes No        Yes
ED   The State VR program authorized under title I of the Required N/A10 Yes Yes
## Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C.720 et seq.), as
amended by WIOA title IV
ED   Career and technical education programs at the Required Yes No       Yes
postsecondary level, authorized under the Carl D.
## Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006
HUD  Employment and training activities carried out by HUD Required Consult Consult Yes
partners’ partners’
authorizing authorizing
documents. documents.
HHS  Employment and training activities carried out under the Required Consult Consult Yes
## CSBG programs                                  partners’ partners’
authorizing authorizing
documents. documents.
HHS  TANF                                  Either11  Yes        No      Yes/No12
Other Partners as outlined by WIOA sec. 121(b)(2)(B) and 20 Additional Consult Consult No
## CFR 678.41013                                  partners’ partners’
authorizing authorizing
documents. documents.

# LIMITATIONS:
## 7 Partners’ funding contributions for infrastructure costs are subject to the partner programs’ administrative cost limitations and restrictions.
The definition of administrative costs may also differ from one partner program to the next.
## 8 Statutory caps for infrastructure funds is applicable only if the State Funding Mechanism is being implemented.
## 9 Native American programs, as required One-stop partners, are strongly encouraged to contribute to infrastructure costs, but they are not
required to make such contributions under WIOA.
## 10 These programs do not distinguish between program or administrative funds since there is only one allotment from which all expenditures –
administrative costs and program costs – must be paid. Although the VR program imposes no limits on the amount of funds that may be
spent on administrative costs, VR agencies must report funds spent for infrastructure costs as administrative costs.
## 11 At the discretion of the Governor, in accordance with WIOA sec. 121(b)(1)(C) and 20 CFR 678.405.
## 12 The Governor may determine that TANF will not be a required partner.
## 13 Additional partners are required to share in infrastructure costs when participating in the one-stop service delivery system; however, the
## State funding mechanism is not applicable to additional partners.



| Dept. | Partner Program | Required/
Additional
Partner |  | Admin. Funds |  |  | Program |  | State Funding
Mechanism
Applicable8 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |  | to Pay |  |  | Funds to Pay |  |  |
|  |  |  |  | Infrastructure |  |  | Infrastructure |  |  |
|  |  |  |  | Costs7 |  |  | Costs |  |  |
| DOL | WIOA Title I programs:
• Adult, Dislocated Worker, & Youth | Required | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes |
| DOL | • Job Corps | Required | No |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes |
| DOL | • YouthBuild | Required | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes |
| DOL | • NFJP | Required | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes |
| DOL | • Native American programs9 | Required | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  | No |
| DOL | Wagner-Peyser Act ES | Required | N/A10 |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes |
| DOL | SCSEP | Required | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes |
| DOL | TAA program | Required | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes |
| DOL | UC programs | Required | N/A10 |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes |
| DOL | JVSG programs | Required | N/A10 |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes |
| DOL | REO programs authorized under sec. 212 of the Second
Chance Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17532) and WIOA sec.
169 | Required | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes |
| ED | AEFLA program, authorized under WIOA title II | Required | Yes |  |  | No |  |  | Yes |
| ED | The State VR program authorized under title I of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C.720 et seq.), as
amended by WIOA title IV | Required | N/A10 |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes |
| ED | Career and technical education programs at the
postsecondary level, authorized under the Carl D.
Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 | Required | Yes |  |  | No |  |  | Yes |
| HUD | Employment and training activities carried out by HUD | Required | Consult
partners’
authorizing
documents. |  |  | Consult
partners’
authorizing
documents. |  |  | Yes |
| HHS | Employment and training activities carried out under the
CSBG programs | Required | Consult
partners’
authorizing
documents. |  |  | Consult
partners’
authorizing
documents. |  |  | Yes |
| HHS | TANF | Either11 | Yes |  |  | No |  |  | Yes/No12 |
| Other | Partners as outlined by WIOA sec. 121(b)(2)(B) and 20
CFR 678.41013 | Additional | Consult
partners’
authorizing
documents. |  |  | Consult
partners’
authorizing
documents. |  |  | No |



| Required/ |
| --- |
| Additional |
| Partner |



| State Funding |
| --- |
| Mechanism |
| Applicable8 |



---
## Page 35



## Attachment IV: One-Stop Operating Costs
























































